---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_422_v1900.pdf
spec: ts_38_422_v1900
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:25Z
---

# ts_38_422_v1900

       ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION



                             5G;
                          NG-RAN;
                   Xn signalling transport
          (3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19)
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                        1                             ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)




                                                            Reference
                                                    RTS/TSGR-0338422vj00

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI
                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                       Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                              Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - APE 7112B
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                           Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° w061004871



                                                       Important notice
                                     The present document can be downloaded from the
                                       ETSI Search & Browse Standards application.
 The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
 print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
    existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                   deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format on ETSI deliver repository.
               Users should be aware that the present document may be revised or have its status changed,
                                  this information is available in the Milestones listing.
                         If you find errors in the present document, please send your comments to
                                  the relevant service listed under Committee Support Staff.
                   If you find a security vulnerability in the present document, please report it through our
                                     Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure (CVD) program.

                                       Notice of disclaimer & limitation of liability
The information provided in the present deliverable is directed solely to professionals who have the appropriate degree of
         experience to understand and interpret its content in accordance with generally accepted engineering or
                                  other professional standard and applicable regulations.
                No recommendation as to products and services or vendors is made or should be implied.
  No representation or warranty is made that this deliverable is technically accurate or sufficient or conforms to any law
and/or governmental rule and/or regulation and further, no representation or warranty is made of merchantability or fitness
                     for any particular purpose or against infringement of intellectual property rights.
        In no event shall ETSI be held liable for loss of profits or any other incidental or consequential damages.

   Any software contained in this deliverable is provided "AS IS" with no warranties, express or implied, including but not
 limited to, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property
 rights and ETSI shall not be held liable in any event for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages
for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of or related to the use
                                                 of or inability to use the software.

                                                   Copyright Notification
No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and
                             microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
             The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                          © ETSI 2025.
                                                       All rights reserved.




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                   2                        ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The declarations
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, are publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be
found in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to
ETSI in respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the
ETSI IPR online database.

Pursuant to the ETSI Directives including the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation regarding the essentiality of IPRs,
including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not
referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web server) which are, or may be, or may become,
essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
Members. 3GPP™, LTE™ and 5G™ logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the
3GPP Organizational Partners. oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of
the oneM2M Partners. GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found at 3GPP to ETSI numbering cross-referencing.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                                                3                                     ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Definitions and abbreviations ...................................................................................................................5
3.1           Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 5
3.2           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 6
4        Xn signalling bearer .................................................................................................................................6
4.1           Functions and protocol stack .............................................................................................................................. 6
5        Data link layer ..........................................................................................................................................6
6        IP layer .....................................................................................................................................................6
7        Transport layer .........................................................................................................................................7
Annex A (informative):                           Change history .................................................................................................8
History ................................................................................................................................................................9




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                  4                        ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                       5                         ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



1                Scope
The present document specifies the standards for signalling transport to be used across Xn interface. The Xn interface
provides means for interconnecting two NG-RAN nodes. The Xn interface is a logical interface between two nodes of
the NG-RAN. The present document describes how the XnAP signalling messages are transported over Xn.



2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

    [2]                 IETF RFC 4960: "Stream Control Transmission Protocol".

    [3]                 3GPP TS 38.300: "NR; Overall Description; Stage 2".

    [4]                 IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification".

    [5]                 IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): "Internet Protocol".

    [6]                 IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): "Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4
                        and IPv6 Headers".

    [7]                 IETF RFC 6083 (2011-01): "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for Stream Control
                        Transmission Protocol (SCTP)".

    [8]                 IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): "Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the
                        Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry".

    [9]                 IANA: "Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Parameters",
                        [https://www.iana.org/assignments/sctp-parameters/sctp-parameters.xhtml#sctp-parameters-25].

    [10]                IANA: “Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry”,
                        [https://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/service-names-port-
                        numbers.xhtml].



3                Definitions and abbreviations

3.1              Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].

NG-RAN node: as defined in TS 38.300 [3]

Xn: interface between two NG-RAN nodes, providing an interconnection point between the NG-RAN nodes.

Xn-C: Reference point for the control plane protocol between NG-RAN nodes.




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                     6                       ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)


3.2            Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

    IP                Internet Protocol
    SCTP              Stream Control Transmission Protocol
    DiffServ          Differentiated Service
    PPP               Point to Point Protocol
    IANA              Internet Assigned Number Authority


4              Xn signalling bearer

4.1            Functions and protocol stack
Xn-C signalling bearer provides the following functions:

    -   Provision of reliable transfer of XnAP message over Xn-C interface.

    -   Provision of networking and routeing function.

    -   Provision of redundancy in the signalling network.

    -   Support for flow control and congestion control.

The protocol stack for Xn-C Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and details on each protocol are described in the
following clauses.



                           Radio
                           Network                 XnAP
                           Layer



                                                   SCTP

                           Transport                 IP
                           Network
                           Layer               Data link layer

                                               Physical layer

                               Figure 4.1-1: Xn-C signalling bearer protocol stack

The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top of IP.



5              Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet, etc., shall not be prevented.



6              IP layer
The NG-RAN node shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [4]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC 791 [5]).




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                     7                         ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)


The IP layer of Xn-C only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering XnAP message.

The NG-RAN node shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in IETF RFC 2474 [6].



7              Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [2]) shall be supported as the transport layer of Xn-C signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol
Identifier (ppid) to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol XnAP and for DTLS over SCTP (IETF RFC
6083 [7]) is assigned by IANA in [9]. The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.

SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the Sigtran working group of the IETF for the
purpose of transporting various signalling protocols over IP network.

An NG RAN node shall support a configuration with a single SCTP association per NG RAN node pair. Configurations
with multiple SCTP endpoints per the NG RAN node pair should be supported. When configurations with multiple
SCTP associations are supported, the NG RAN node may request to dynamically add/remove SCTP associations
between the NG RAN node pair. Within the set of SCTP associations established between one NG RAN node pair, a
single SCTP association shall be employed for XnAP elementary procedures that utilize non-UE-associated signalling
with the possibility of fail-over to a new association to enable robustness. The SCTP Destination Port number value to
be used by XnAP is assigned by IANA in [10]. When a NG-RAN node requests to dynamically add additional SCTP
associations between the NG RAN node pair, the SCTP Destination Port number value may be the one assigned by
IANA in [10], or any dynamic port value (IETF RFC 6335 [8]). The NG RAN node configuration update procedure
shall be the first XnAP procedure triggered on an additional TNLA of an already setup Xn-C interface instance after the
TNL association has become operational, and the peer NG RAN node shall associate the TNLA to the Xn-C interface
instance using the included Global NG-RAN Node ID.

Between one pair of two NG-RAN nodes:

    -   a single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over an SCTP association for the sole use of XnAP
        elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated signalling.

    -   At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP associations shall be reserved for the sole use of
        XnAP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated signallings. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than one)
        should be reserved.

    -   For a single UE-associated signalling, the NG RAN nodes shall use one SCTP association and one SCTP stream
        and the SCTP association/stream should not be changed during the communication of the UE-associated
        signalling unless current SCTP association is failed or removed, or TNL binding update is performed.

Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two end-points, of which one or both
is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. For
SCTP endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from one NG-RAN node, at any time for an already established SCTP
association, which shall be handled as defined in IETF RFC 4960 [2] in sub clause 5.2.

The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism, initiate higher layer protocols to
reduce the signalling traffic at the source and prioritise certain messages.




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19                     8                         ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Annex A (informative):
Change history
                                                     Change history
  Date     Meeting      TDoc          CR   Rev Cat                         Subject/Comment                              New
                                                                                                                       version
 2018-01 RAN3-AH-     R3-180544                      Reflected agreed TP in RAN3-AH-1801 in 2018-01 (Sophia             0.2.0
           1801                                      Antipolis)
 2018-05 RAN3#100     R3-183596                      Reflected agreed TP in RAN3#100 in 2018-05 (Busan) and made        0.3.0
                                                     some editorial corrections
 2018-06   RAN#80     RP-180682                      Submitted to RAN plenary for Approval                             1.0.0
 2018-06   RAN#80     RP-181276                      Typos corrected ("NGAP" corrected to "XnAP" in two places)        1.0.1
 2018-06   RAN#80                 -          -   -   Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change         15.0.0
                                                     control
 2018-09    RAN#81    RP-181920   0001       -   F   Updated reference to IPv6                                         15.1.0
 2018-12    RAN#82    RP-182447   0003       -   F   Enabling multiple SCTP associations                               15.2.0
 2019-09    RAN#85    RP-192166   0005       1   F   CR on PPID value for DTLS over SCTP                               15.3.0
 2019-09    RAN#85    RP-192167   0007       1   F   Use of SCTP ports for multiple TNLA                               15.3.0
 2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192915   0008       -   F   Ambiguity with multiple SCTP associations in 38.422               15.4.0
 2020-03   RAN#87-e   RP-200425   0009           F   Rapporteur’s Update for 38.422                                    16.0.0
 2022-03   SA#95-e                                   Promotion to Release 17 without technical change                  17.0.0
                                                     Clarifications on TNLA Addition/Removal/Modification procedures
 2023-06   RAN#100    RP-231075   0016       2   A                                                                     17.1.0
                                                     (XnAP)
 2024-03    SA#103        -       -          -   -   Update to Rel-18 version (MCC)                                    18.0.0
 2024-06   RAN#104    RP-241113   0017       1   D   Correction on XnAP PPID and Destination Port Number over SCTP     18.1.0
 2025-09    SA#109        -       -          -   -   Update to Rel-19 version (MCC)                                    19.0.0




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 19.0.0 Release 19             9           ETSI TS 138 422 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



History
                                              Document history
 V19.0.0       October 2025     Publication




                                                    ETSI
