---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_460_v1605.pdf
spec: ts_38_460_v1605
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:31Z
---

# ts_38_460_v1605

      ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                           5G;
                         NG-RAN;
             E1 general aspects and principles
         (3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16)
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                        1                             ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)




                                                            Reference
                                                   RTS/TSGR-0338460vg50

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI
                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                       Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                              Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - APE 7112B
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                           Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° w061004871



                                                       Important notice
                                       The present document can be downloaded from:
                                            http://www.etsi.org/standards-search
 The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
 print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
    existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                     deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format at www.etsi.org/deliver.
    Users of the present document should be aware that the document may be subject to revision or change of status.
                    Information on the current status of this and other ETSI documents is available at
                                  https://portal.etsi.org/TB/ETSIDeliverableStatus.aspx
          If you find errors in the present document, please send your comment to one of the following services:
                                   https://portal.etsi.org/People/CommiteeSupportStaff.aspx
                   If you find a security vulnerability in the present document, please report it through our
                                         Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure Program:
                              https://www.etsi.org/standards/coordinated-vulnerability-disclosure

                                       Notice of disclaimer & limitation of liability
The information provided in the present deliverable is directed solely to professionals who have the appropriate degree of
         experience to understand and interpret its content in accordance with generally accepted engineering or
                                  other professional standard and applicable regulations.
                No recommendation as to products and services or vendors is made or should be implied.
  No representation or warranty is made that this deliverable is technically accurate or sufficient or conforms to any law
and/or governmental rule and/or regulation and further, no representation or warranty is made of merchantability or fitness
                     for any particular purpose or against infringement of intellectual property rights.
        In no event shall ETSI be held liable for loss of profits or any other incidental or consequential damages.

   Any software contained in this deliverable is provided "AS IS" with no warranties, express or implied, including but not
 limited to, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property
 rights and ETSI shall not be held liable in any event for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages
for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of or related to the use
                                                 of or inability to use the software.

                                                   Copyright Notification
No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and
                             microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
             The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                          © ETSI 2022.
                                                       All rights reserved.




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                   2                        ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The declarations
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, are publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be
found in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to
ETSI in respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the
ETSI Web server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI Directives including the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation regarding the essentiality of IPRs,
including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not
referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web server) which are, or may be, or may become,
essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
Members. 3GPP™ and LTE™ are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the 3GPP
Organizational Partners. oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the
oneM2M Partners. GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under http://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                                                 3                                     ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Definitions and abbreviations ...................................................................................................................5
3.1           Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 5
3.3           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 6
4        General aspects .........................................................................................................................................6
4.1           E1 interface general principles ........................................................................................................................... 6
4.2           E1 interface specification objectives .................................................................................................................. 6
5        Functions of the E1 interface....................................................................................................................6
5.1           General ............................................................................................................................................................... 6
5.1.1           E1 interface management function ............................................................................................................... 6
5.1.2           E1 bearer context management function ....................................................................................................... 7
5.1.3           Trace function ............................................................................................................................................... 8
5.1.4           Load management function........................................................................................................................... 8
5.1.5           Measurement results transfer function .......................................................................................................... 8
5.1.6            Support for IAB ............................................................................................................................................ 8
5.2           TEIDs allocation ................................................................................................................................................ 8
6        Procedures of the E1 interface..................................................................................................................8
6.1           Interface Management procedures ..................................................................................................................... 8
6.2           Bearer Context Management procedures ........................................................................................................... 8
6.3           UE Tracing procedures ....................................................................................................................................... 9
6.4           Load management procedures ............................................................................................................................ 9
6.5           Measurement results transfer procedures ........................................................................................................... 9
6.6           IAB procedures .................................................................................................................................................. 9
7        E1 interface protocol structure .................................................................................................................9
8        Other E1 interface specifications ...........................................................................................................10
8.1           NG-RAN E1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.461)........................................................................................... 10
8.2           NG-RAN E1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 38.462) ....................................................................... 10
8.3           NG-RAN E1 interface: E1AP specification (3GPP TS 38.463) ....................................................................... 10

Annex A (informative):                           Change history ...............................................................................................11
History ..............................................................................................................................................................12




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                  4                        ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                       5                         ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)



1                Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 38.46x series of technical specifications that define the E1
interface. The E1 interface provides means for interconnecting a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP of a gNB-CU within
an NG-RAN, or for interconnecting a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP of an en-gNB within an E-UTRAN.



2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

    [2]                 3GPP TS 38.401: "NG-RAN; Architecture Description".

    [3]                 3GPP TS 38.461: "NG-RAN; E1 layer 1".

    [4]                 3GPP TS 38.462: "NG-RAN; E1 signalling transport".

    [5]                 3GPP TS 38.463: "NG-RAN; E1 Application Protocol (E1AP)".

    [6]                 3GPP TS 38.300: "NR; Overall description; Stage-2".

    [7]                 3GPP TS 37.340: "NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage-2".



3                Definitions and abbreviations

3.1              Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].

en-gNB: as defined in TS 37.340 [7]

gNB-CU: as defined in TS 38.401 [2]

gNB-CU-CP: as defined in TS 38.401 [2]

gNB-CU-UP: as defined in TS 38.401 [2]

gNB-DU: as defined in TS 38.401 [2]

gNB: as defined in TS 38.300 [6]

IAB: as defined in TS 38.300 [6].




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                      6                        ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)


3.3            Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

    DL                Downlink
    DRB               Data Radio Bearer
    E1AP              E1 Application Protocol
    IP                Internet Protocol
    SCTP              Stream Control Transmission Protocol
    TNL               Transport Network Layer


4              General aspects
This clause captures the E1 interface principles and characteristics.


4.1            E1 interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the E1 interface are as follows:

    -   the E1 interface is open;

    -   the E1 interface supports the exchange of signalling information between the endpoints;

    -   from a logical standpoint, the E1 is a point-to-point interface between a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP.

    NOTE 1: A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible even in the absence of a physical direct connection
            between the endpoints.

    -   the E1 interface separates Radio Network Layer and Transport Network Layer;

    -   the E1 interface enables exchange of UE associated information and non-UE associated information;

    -   the E1 interface is future proof to fulfil different new requirements, support of new services and new functions.

    NOTE 2: The E1 interface is a control interface and is not used for user data forwarding.


4.2            E1 interface specification objectives
The E1 interface specifications facilitate the following:

    -   inter-connection of a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP supplied by different manufacturers.



5              Functions of the E1 interface

5.1            General
The following clauses describe the functions supported over E1.


5.1.1          E1 interface management function
The error indication function is used by the gNB-CU-UP or gNB-CU-CP to indicate to the gNB-CU-CP or gNB-CU-UP
that an error has occurred.

The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup and after a failure event occurred. This procedure
can be used by both the gNB-CU-UP and the gNB-CU-CP.



                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                   7                        ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)


The E1 setup function allows to exchange application level data needed for the gNB-CU-UP and gNB-CU-CP to
interoperate correctly on the E1 interface. The E1 setup is initiated by both the gNB-CU-UP and gNB-CU-CP.

The gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update and gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update functions allow to update application
level configuration data needed between the gNB-CU-CP and the gNB-CU-UP to interoperate correctly over the E1
interface.

The E1 setup and gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update functions allow to inform NR CGI(s), S-NSSAI(s), PLMN-ID(s),
QoS information and NID(s) supported by the gNB-CU-UP.

The E1 setup and gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update functions allow the gNB-CU-UP to signal its capacity
information to the gNB-CU-CP.

The E1 gNB-CU-UP Status Indication function allows to inform the overloaded or non-overloaded status over the E1
interface.


5.1.2         E1 bearer context management function
The establishment of the E1 bearer context is initiated by the gNB-CU-CP and accepted or rejected by the gNB-CU-UP
based on admission control criteria (e.g., resource not available).

The modification of the E1 bearer context can be initiated by either gNB-CU-CP or gNB-CU-UP. The receiving node
can accept or reject the modification. The E1 bearer context management function also supports the release of the bearer
context previously established in the gNB-CU-UP. The release of the bearer context is triggered by the gNB-CU-CP
either directly or following a request received from the gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used to setup and modify the QoS-flow to DRB mapping configuration. The gNB-CU-CP decides flow-
to-DRB mapping and provides the generated SDAP and PDCP configuration to the gNB-CU-UP. The gNB-CU-CP also
decides the Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping. The function is also used to send to the gNB-CU-UP the alternative
QoS Parameters Sets when available for a QoS flow. For each PDU Session Resource to be setup or modified, the S-
NSSAI, shall be provided in the E1 bearer context setup procedure and may be provided in the E1 bearer context
modification procedure by gNB-CU-CP to the gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send the security information to the gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send to the gNB-CU-UP transport layer information to be used for data
forwarding e.g. during handovers.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send the parameters for header compression for certain traffic types e.g. IP,
Ethernet to the gNB-CU-UP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the event of DL data arrival detection to the gNB-CU-CP. With this
function, the gNB-CU-UP requests gNB-CU-CP to trigger paging procedure over F1 or Xn to support RRC Inactive
state.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the gNB-CU-CP that a DL packet including a QFI value not
configured by the gNB-CU-CP or an UL packet including a QFI value in the SDAP header of the default DRB not
configured by the gNB-CU-CP is received for the first time. The gNB-CU-CP can take further action if needed.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the event of user inactivity to the gNB-CU-CP. With this function,
the gNB-CU-UP indicates that the inactivity timer associated with a bearer, a PDU session or a UE expires, or that user
data is received for the bearer, the PDU session or the UE whose inactivity timer has expired. The gNB-CU-CP
consolidates all the serving gNB-CU-UPs for the UE and takes further action.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to report data volume to the gNB-CU-CP.

This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to notify the suspension and resumption of bearer contexts to the gNB-CU-
UP.

This function also allows to support CA based packet duplication as described in TS 38.300 [6], i.e. one data radio
bearer should be configured with at least two GTP-U tunnels between gNB-CU-UP and a gNB-DU.

This function is used to support the enhanced mobility operations as described in TS 38.300 [6] in the gNB-CU-
UP.



                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                   8                       ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)


5.1.3         Trace function
The Trace function provides means to control trace sessions for a UE over E1 interface.


5.1.4         Load management function
The load management function allows an gNB-CU-CP to request the reporting of load measurements to gNB-DU and is
used by gNB-CU-UP to report the result of measurements admitted by gNB-CU-UP.


5.1.5         Measurement results transfer function
The measurement results transfer is used by the gNB-CU-CP to transfer UE associated measurement results to the gNB-
CU-UP.


5.1.6         Support for IAB
This function is used to update the DL/UL F1-U GTP-U tunnels for an IAB network, and allow the gNB-CU-CP to send
the security key info to the gNB-CU-UP for the protection of the F1-U interface with IAB-DU.


5.2           TEIDs allocation
The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the F1-U UL GTP TEID for each data radio bearer.

The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the S1-U DL GTP TEID for each E-RAB and the NG-U DL GTP
TEID for each PDU Session.

The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the X2-U DL/UL GTP TEID or the Xn-U DL/UL GTP TEID for
each data radio bearer.



6             Procedures of the E1 interface

6.1           Interface Management procedures
The E1 interface management procedures are listed below:

    -   Reset procedure

    -   Error Indication procedure

    -   gNB-CU-UP E1 Setup procedure

    -   gNB-CU-CP E1 Setup procedure

    -   gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update procedure

    -   gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update procedure

    -   E1 Release procedure

    -   gNB-CU-UP Status Indication procedure


6.2           Bearer Context Management procedures
The E1 bearer management procedures are listed below:

    -   Bearer Context Setup procedure

    -   Bearer Context Release Request (gNB-CU-UP initiated) procedure



                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                    9                      ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)


    -   Bearer Context Release (gNB-CU-CP initiated) procedure

    -   Bearer Context Modification (gNB-CU-CP initiated) procedure

    -   Bearer Context Modification Required (gNB-CU-UP initiated) procedure

    -   DL Data Notification procedure

    -   Bearer Context Inactivity Notification procedure

    -   Data Usage Report procedure

    -   MR-DC Data Usage Report procedure


6.3           UE Tracing procedures
The following procedures are used to trace the UE:

    -   Trace Start procedure

    -   Deactivate Trace procedure

    -   Cell Traffic Trace procedure


6.4           Load management procedures
The load management procedures are listed as below:

    -   Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure

    -   Resource Status Reporting procedure


6.5           Measurement results transfer procedures
The measurement results transfer procedures are listed as below:

    -   GNB-CU-CP Measurement Results Information


6.6           IAB procedures
The IAB procedures are listed as below:

    -   IAB UP TNL Address Update procedure

    -   IAB PSK Notification procedure



7             E1 interface protocol structure
Figure 7.1-1 shows the protocol structure for E1. The TNL is based on IP transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP.
The application layer signalling protocol is referred to as E1AP (E1 Application Protocol).




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                    10                      ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)


                                                        Control Plane
                                      Radio
                                      Network                E1-AP
                                      Layer



                                                              SCTP

                                      Transport                  IP
                                      Network
                                      Layer              Data link layer

                                                          Physical layer

                                Figure 7.1-1: Interface protocol structure for E1



8             Other E1 interface specifications
This clause contains the description of the other related 3GPP specifications.


8.1           NG-RAN E1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.461)
3GPP TS 38.461 [3] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used to support the E1 interface.


8.2           NG-RAN E1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP
              TS 38.462)
3GPP TS 38.462 [4] specifies the signalling bearers for the E1AP for the E1 interface.


8.3           NG-RAN E1 interface: E1AP specification (3GPP
              TS 38.463)
3GPP TS 38.463 [5] specifies the E1AP protocol for radio network control plane signalling over the E1 interface.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16                   11                           ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)



Annex A (informative):
Change history
                                                     Change history
Date       Meeting    TDoc         CR     Rev Cat    Subject/Comment                                                        New
                                                                                                                            version
 2018-02    R3#99      R3-181037   -         -   -   Skeleton                                                                0.0.0
 2018-02    R3#99      R3-181419   -         -   -   Editorial changes                                                       0.1.0
 2018-03    R3#99      R3-181596                     Agreed text proposal R3-181425 on TEID allocation added to              0.2.0
                                                     section 5.2; Agreed text proposal R3-181427 on Bearer Context
                                                     management function and procedure added to section 5.1.2 and 6.2.
 2018-04   R3#99bis    R3-181844   -         -   -   gNB-CU-CP / gNB-CU-UP is agreed as a formal name                        0.3.0
 2018-04   R3#99bis    R3-182498   -         -   -   E1 interface management function further detailed; gNB-CU-UP E1         0.3.0
                                                     Setup, gNB-CU-CP E1 Setup, gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update,
                                                     gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update, E1 Release (FFS) introduced.
 2018-04   R3#99bis    R3-182465   -         -   -   Bearer Context Inactivity Notification Procedure introduced.            0.3.0
 2018-05   R3#100      R3-183579                     E1 bearer context management function further updated by adding         0.4.0
                                                     user inactivity notification, DL data arrival detection, data volume
                                                     reporting and packet duplication.
 2018-06    RAN#80     RP-180746                     For approval                                                             1.0.0
 2018-06    RAN#80                 -         -   -   Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change               15.0.0
                                                     control
 2018-09    RAN#81     RP-181925   0001     4    F   NR Corrections (38.460 Baseline CR covering RAN3-101                    15.1.0
                                                     agreements)
 2018-12    RAN#82     RP-182451   0005     1    F   CR to 38.460 on capacity information transfer via E1 interface          15.2.0
 2018-12    RAN#82     RP-182451   0006     1    F   CR to 38.460 on overload information indication over E1                 15.2.0
 2018-12    RAN#82     RP-182451   0012     1    F   CR to 38.460 on PDCP suspend indication over E1 interface               15.2.0
 2018-12    RAN#82     RP-182451   0014     2    F   CR to 38.460 on notification for default DRB over E1                    15.2.0
 2018-12    RAN#82     RP-182447   0015     1    F   Introduction of Data Volume Reporting for MR-DC                         15.2.0
 2019-03    RAN#83     RP-190560   0017     1    F   CR to 38.460 on inactivity notification over E1                         15.3.0
 2019-07    RAN#84     RP-191399   0020     1    F   CR to 38.460 on clarifications for E1 bearer context management         15.4.0
                                                     function and TEIDs allocation
 2019-12    RAN#86     RP-192913   0021     2    F   Trace function Support over E1 Interface                                16.0.0
 2020-07   RAN#88-e    RP-201080   0029     5    B   CR to TS 38.460 on support of NPN                                       16.1.0
 2020-07   RAN#88-e    RP-201082   0031     3    B   BLCR to 38.460: Addition of SON feature                                 16.1.0
 2020-07   RAN#88-e    RP-201079   0034     2    B    Support of Ethernet Type                                               16.1.0
 2020-07   RAN#88-e    RP-201075   0035     1    B   TS38.460 Stage2 Introduction of Mobility Enhancement Features           16.1.0
 2020-07   RAN#88-e    RP-201074   0036     1    B   Support for Alternative QoS profiles over E1                            16.1.0
 2020-07   RAN#88-e    RP-201082   0038     1    B   BLCR to 38.460: Addition of MDT feature                                 16.1.0
 2020-07   RAN#88-e    RP-201079   0039     1    B   PDCP duplication with more than 2 entities for E1 stage 2               16.1.0
 2020-12   RAN#90-e    RP-202312   0043     1    F   Introduction of D1 measurement transfer on E1AP                         16.2.0
 2020-12   RAN#90-e    RP-202312   0044          F   Support of direct data forwarding for inter-system HO                   16.2.0
 2021-03   RAN#91-e    RP-210231   0045     2    F   CR to 38.460: Supporting IAB function and procedure                     16.3.0
 2021-12   RAN#94-e    RP-212870   0049     2    F   CR for 38.460 on E1AP handling for unmapped DL QoS flows                16.4.0
 2022-03   RAN#95-e    RP-220276   0053     1    F   Correction on support of Pre-shared key derivation for IAB-donor-       16.5.0
                                                     CU-UP




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.460 version 16.5.0 Release 16             12          ETSI TS 138 460 V16.5.0 (2022-05)



History
                                              Document history
V16.1.0       July 2020         Publication

V16.2.0       January 2021      Publication

V16.3.0       April 2021        Publication

V16.4.0       January 2022      Publication

V16.5.0       May 2022          Publication




                                                    ETSI
