---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_474_v1900.pdf
spec: ts_38_474_v1900
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:36Z
---

# ts_38_474_v1900

       ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION



                             5G;
                          NG-RAN;
                      F1 data transport
          (3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19)
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                        1                             ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)




                                                            Reference
                                                    RTS/TSGR-0338474vj00

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI
                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                       Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                              Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - APE 7112B
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                           Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° w061004871



                                                       Important notice
                                     The present document can be downloaded from the
                                       ETSI Search & Browse Standards application.
 The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
 print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
    existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                   deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format on ETSI deliver repository.
               Users should be aware that the present document may be revised or have its status changed,
                                  this information is available in the Milestones listing.
                         If you find errors in the present document, please send your comments to
                                  the relevant service listed under Committee Support Staff.
                   If you find a security vulnerability in the present document, please report it through our
                                     Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure (CVD) program.

                                       Notice of disclaimer & limitation of liability
The information provided in the present deliverable is directed solely to professionals who have the appropriate degree of
         experience to understand and interpret its content in accordance with generally accepted engineering or
                                  other professional standard and applicable regulations.
                No recommendation as to products and services or vendors is made or should be implied.
  No representation or warranty is made that this deliverable is technically accurate or sufficient or conforms to any law
and/or governmental rule and/or regulation and further, no representation or warranty is made of merchantability or fitness
                     for any particular purpose or against infringement of intellectual property rights.
        In no event shall ETSI be held liable for loss of profits or any other incidental or consequential damages.

   Any software contained in this deliverable is provided "AS IS" with no warranties, express or implied, including but not
 limited to, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property
 rights and ETSI shall not be held liable in any event for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages
for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of or related to the use
                                                 of or inability to use the software.

                                                   Copyright Notification
No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and
                             microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
             The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                          © ETSI 2025.
                                                       All rights reserved.




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                   2                        ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The declarations
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, are publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be
found in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to
ETSI in respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the
ETSI IPR online database.

Pursuant to the ETSI Directives including the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation regarding the essentiality of IPRs,
including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not
referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web server) which are, or may be, or may become,
essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
Members. 3GPP™, LTE™ and 5G™ logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the
3GPP Organizational Partners. oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of
the oneM2M Partners. GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found at 3GPP to ETSI numbering cross-referencing.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                                                 3                                     ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Definitions and abbreviations ...................................................................................................................5
3.1           Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 5
3.2           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 6
4        Data Link Layer .......................................................................................................................................6
5        F1 Interface user plane protocol ...............................................................................................................6
5.1           General ............................................................................................................................................................... 6
5.2           GTP-U ................................................................................................................................................................ 6
5.3           UDP/IP ............................................................................................................................................................... 6
5.4           Diffserv code point marking............................................................................................................................... 7

Annex A (informative):                           Change history .................................................................................................8
History ................................................................................................................................................................9




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                  4                        ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                       5                         ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



1                Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols and related signalling protocols to
establish user plane transport bearers over the F1 interface. The F1 interface provides means for interconnecting a gNB-
CU and a gNB-DU of a gNB within an NG-RAN, or for interconnection a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of an en-gNB
within an E-UTRAN.



2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

    [2]                 3GPP TS 29.281: "General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunnelling Protocol User Plane
                        (GTPv1-U)".

    [3]                 IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): "User Datagram Protocol".

    [4]                 IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): "Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the Ipv4
                        and Ipv6 Headers".

    [5]                 IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (Ipv6) Specification".

    [6]                 IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): "Internet Protocol".

    [7]                 3GPP TS 38.300: "NR; Overall description; Stage-2".

    [8]                 3GPP TS 38.401: "NG-RAN; Architecture Description".

    [9]                 3GPP TS 37.340: "NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage-2".



3                Definitions and abbreviations

3.1              Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].

en-gNB: as defined in TS 37.340 [9].

F1: interface between a gNB-DU and a gNB-CU, providing an interconnection point between the gNB-DU and the
gNB-CU.

gNB-CU: as defined in TS 38.401 [8].

gNB-DU: as defined in TS 38.401 [8].

gNB: as defined in TS 38.300 [7].




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                   6                        ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)


3.2           Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
TR 21.905 [1].

    GTP              GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
    IAB              Integrated Access and Backhaul
    IP               Internet Protocol
    TEID             Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
    UDP              User Datagram Protocol



4             Data Link Layer
Any data link protocol that fulfils the requirements toward the upper layer may be used.



5             F1 Interface user plane protocol

5.1           General
The transport layer for data streams over F1 is an IP based Transport. The following figure shows the transport protocol
stacks over F1.

                                                        GTP-U

                                                         UDP

                                                     IPv6 (RFC 2460)
                                                          and/or
                                                      IPv4 (RFC 791)


                                                     Data link layer

                                                     Physical layer

                        Figure 5.1: Transport network layer for data streams over F1

The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol over UDP over IP shall be supported as the transport for data streams on the F1
interface. The data link layer is as specified in clause 4.

The transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U TEID (TS 29.281 [2]) and the IP address (source TEID, destination
TEID, source IP address, destination IP address).


5.2           GTP-U
The GTP-U (TS 29.281 [2]) protocol shall be used over the F1 interface between gNB-DU and gNB-CU.


5.3           UDP/IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP (IETF RFC 768 [3]).

The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in TS 29.281 [2].

The gNB-DU and the gNB-CU shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP packets at the IP layer.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                    7                        ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)


The gNB-DU and the gNB-CU shall support Ipv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [5]) and/or Ipv4 (IETF RFC 791 [6]).

There may be one or several IP addresses in the gNB-DU and in the gNB-CU. The packet processing function in the
gNB-CU shall send downstream packets of a given bearer to the gNB-DU IP address (received in F1AP) associated to
that particular bearer. The packet processing function in the gNB-DU shall send upstream packets of a given bearer to
the gNB-CU IP address (received in F1AP) associated to that particular bearer.

The Transport Layer Address signalled in F1AP messages is a bit string of:

   a) 32 bits in case of Ipv4 address according to IETF RFC 791 [6]; or

   b) 128 bits in case of Ipv6 address according to IETF RFC 8200 [5]; or

   c) 160 bits if both Ipv4 and Ipv6 addresses are signalled, in which case the Ipv4 address is contained in the first 32
      bits.


5.4           Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [4]) shall be supported. Except the downlink F1-U to
the IAB node, the mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points shall be configurable by O&M based on
5G QoS Identifier (5QI) , the Priority Level (if explicitly signalled), and other NG-RAN traffic parameters (e.g. ARP).
Traffic categories are implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters. In the IAB
system, the Diffserv code points used for the downlink F1-U shall be configurable by the CU-CP based on the O&M-
configured mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19                  8                            ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



Annex A (informative):
Change history
                                                 Change history
Date       Meeting   Tdoc       CR   Rev Cat   Subject/Comment                                                      New
                                                                                                                    version
  2017-6   RAN3 NR                             The first version, includes technical content endorsed in previous     0.1.0
            ad hoc                             meetings
  2017-9   RAN3#97 R3-173796                   Rapporteur’s update, minor correction                                 0.2.0
              bis
 2017-10   RAN3#97 R3-174248                   TS 38.474 v0.3.0 covering agreements of RAN3 #97bis                   0.3.0
              bis
 2017-12   RAN3#98 R3-175075                   Baseline pCR to TS 38.474 covering agreements of RAN3#98               0.4.0
 2017-12   RAN#78 RP-172671                    First submission to RAN for approval                                   1.0.0
 2018-01    RP-78                              TS approved by RAN plenary                                            15.0.0
 2018-06    RP-80 RP-181238 0002           F   Rapporteur's correction to TS 38.474                                  15.1.0
 2018-09    RP-81 RP-181920 0004       -   F   Updated reference to IPv6                                             15.2.0
 2019-09    RP-85 RP-192166 0006       1   F   Correction of DSCP Derivation                                         15.3.0
 2020-07   RP-88-e RP-201077 0007      4   B   Support for IAB                                                       16.0.0
 2020-12   RP-90-e RP-202310 0008      1   F   Correction in F1-U on DSCP Derivation in IAB-donor node               16.1.0
 2022-03   SA#95-e                             Promotion to Release 17 without technical change                      17.0.0
 2024-03   SA#103           -   -      -   -   Update to Rel-18 version (MCC)                                        18.0.0
 2025-09   SA#109           -   -      -   -   Update to Rel-19 version (MCC)                                        19.0.0




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.474 version 19.0.0 Release 19             9           ETSI TS 138 474 V19.0.0 (2025-10)



History
                                              Document history
 V19.0.0       October 2025     Publication




                                                    ETSI
