---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_462_v1508.pdf
spec: ts_38_462_v1508
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:31Z
---

# ts_38_462_v1508

      ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                            5G;
                         NG-RAN;
                  E1 signalling transport
         (3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15)
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                        1                             ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)




                                                            Reference
                                                    RTS/TSGR-0338462vf80

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI
                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                       Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                              Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - APE 7112B
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                           Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° w061004871



                                                       Important notice
                                       The present document can be downloaded from:
                                            https://www.etsi.org/standards-search
 The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
 print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
    existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                     deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format at www.etsi.org/deliver.
    Users of the present document should be aware that the document may be subject to revision or change of status.
                    Information on the current status of this and other ETSI documents is available at
                                  https://portal.etsi.org/TB/ETSIDeliverableStatus.aspx
          If you find errors in the present document, please send your comment to one of the following services:
                                   https://portal.etsi.org/People/CommiteeSupportStaff.aspx
                   If you find a security vulnerability in the present document, please report it through our
                                         Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure Program:
                              https://www.etsi.org/standards/coordinated-vulnerability-disclosure

                                       Notice of disclaimer & limitation of liability
The information provided in the present deliverable is directed solely to professionals who have the appropriate degree of
         experience to understand and interpret its content in accordance with generally accepted engineering or
                                  other professional standard and applicable regulations.
                No recommendation as to products and services or vendors is made or should be implied.
  No representation or warranty is made that this deliverable is technically accurate or sufficient or conforms to any law
and/or governmental rule and/or regulation and further, no representation or warranty is made of merchantability or fitness
                     for any particular purpose or against infringement of intellectual property rights.
        In no event shall ETSI be held liable for loss of profits or any other incidental or consequential damages.

   Any software contained in this deliverable is provided "AS IS" with no warranties, express or implied, including but not
 limited to, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property
 rights and ETSI shall not be held liable in any event for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages
for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of or related to the use
                                                 of or inability to use the software.

                                                   Copyright Notification
No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and
                             microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
             The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                          © ETSI 2024.
                                                       All rights reserved.




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                   2                        ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The declarations
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, are publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be
found in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to
ETSI in respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the
ETSI Web server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI Directives including the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation regarding the essentiality of IPRs,
including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not
referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web server) which are, or may be, or may become,
essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
Members. 3GPP™ and LTE™ are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the 3GPP
Organizational Partners. oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the
oneM2M Partners. GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under https://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                                                3                                     ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Definitions and abbreviations ...................................................................................................................5
3.1           Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 5
3.3           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 6
4        E1 signalling bearer ..................................................................................................................................6
4.1           Function and protocol stack................................................................................................................................ 6
5        Data link layer ..........................................................................................................................................7
6        IP layer .....................................................................................................................................................7
7        Transport layer .........................................................................................................................................7
Annex A (informative):                            Change history ................................................................................................9
History ..............................................................................................................................................................10




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                  4                        ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                       5                         ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)



1                Scope
The present document specifies the standards for Signalling Transport to be used across the E1 interface. The E1
interface provides means for the interconnection of gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP within the NG-RAN architecture (TS
38.401 [2]).



2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

    [2]                 3GPP TS 38.401: "NG-RAN; Architecture description".

    [3]                 IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification".

    [4]                 IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): "Internet Protocol".

    [5]                 IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): "Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4
                        and IPv6 Headers".

    [6]                 IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): "Stream Control Transmission Protocol".

    [7]                 3GPP TS 38.460: "NG-RAN; E1 general aspects and principles".

    [8]                 3GPP TS 38.461: "NG-RAN; E1 layer 1".

    [9]                 3GPP TS 38.463: "NG-RAN; E1 Application Protocol (E1AP)".

    [10]                3GPP TS 38.300: "NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage-2".

    [11]                IETF RFC 6083 (2011-01): "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for Stream Control
                        Transmission Protocol (SCTP)".

    [12]                IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): "Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the
                        Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry".

    [13]                IANA: "Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Parameters",
                        [https://www.iana.org/assignments/sctp-parameters/sctp-parameters.xhtml#sctp-parameters-25].



3                Definitions and abbreviations

3.1              Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].

E1: interface between a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP, providing an interconnection point between the gNB-CU-CP
and the gNB-CU-UP.



                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                     6                       ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)


gNB: as defined in TS 38.300 [10].

gNB-CU: as defined in TS 38.401 [2].

gNB-CU-CP: as defined in TS 38.401 [2].

gNB-CU-UP: as defined in TS 38.401 [2].

SCTP endpoint: as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [6].

SCTP association: as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [6].


3.3            Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

    DiffServ          Differentiated Service
    IANA              Internet Assigned Number Authority
    IP                Internet Protocol
    PPP               Point to Point Protocol
    SCTP              Stream Control Transmission Protocol


4              E1 signalling bearer

4.1            Function and protocol stack
E1 signalling bearer provides the following functions:

    -   Provision of reliable transfer of E1AP message over E1 interface.

    -   Provision of networking and routeing function

    -   Provision of redundancy in the signalling network

    -   Support for flow control and congestion control

The protocol stack for E1 Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and details on each protocol are described in the
following sections.



                           Radio
                           Network                 E1AP
                           Layer



                                                   SCTP

                           Transport                 IP
                           Network
                           Layer              Data link layer

                                               Physical layer

                                Figure 4.1-1: E1 signalling bearer protocol stack

    The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top of IP.




                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                     7                         ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)



5              Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet, etc., shall not be prevented.



6              IP layer
The gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [3]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC 791 [4]).

The IP layer of E1 only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering E1AP message.

The gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in IETF RFC 2474 [5].



7              Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [6]) shall be supported as the transport layer of E1 signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol
Identifier to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol E1AP and for DTLS over SCTP (IETF RFC 6083 [11])
is assigned by IANA in [13]. The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.

SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the Sigtran working group of the IETF for the
purpose of transporting various signalling protocols over IP network.

The gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP shall support a configuration with a single SCTP association per gNB-CU-CP/gNB-
CU-UP pair. Configurations with multiple SCTP endpoints per gNB-CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP pair should be supported.
When configurations with multiple SCTP associations are supported, the gNB-CU-CP or the gNB-CU-UP may request
to dynamically add/remove SCTP associations between the gNB-CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP pair. Within the set of SCTP
associations established between one gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP pair, a single SCTP association shall be employed
for E1AP elementary procedures that utilize non-UE-associated signalling with the possibility of fail-over to a new
association to enable robustness.

When the configuration with multiple SCTP endpoints per gNB-CU-UP is supported and gNB-CU-UP wants to add
additional SCTP endpoints, the gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update procedure shall be the first E1AP procedure
triggered on an additional TNLA of an already setup E1 interface instance after the TNL association has become
operational, and the gNB-CU-CP shall associate the TNLA to the E1 interface instance using the included gNB-CU-UP
ID.

Either the gNB-CU-CP or gNB-CU-UP shall establish the first SCTP association. The additional SCTP associations are
established by the gNB-CU-UP. The SCTP Destination Port number value to be used for E1AP is 38462 which is
assigned by IANA. When the gNB-CU-CP requests to dynamically add additional SCTP associations between the gNB-
CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP pair, the gNB-CU-CP port is selected and signalled by the gNB-CU-CP to the gNB-CU-UP, and it
can be port number value 38462 or any dynamic port value as defined by IETF RFC 6335 [12].

Between one gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP pair:

    -   A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over an SCTP association for the sole use of E1AP
        elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated signalling.

    -   At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP associations shall be reserved for the sole use of
        E1AP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated signalling. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than one)
        should be reserved.

    -   For a single UE-associated signalling the gNB-CU-CP and the gNB-CU-UP shall use one SCTP association and
        one SCTP stream, and the SCTP association/stream should not be changed during the communication of the UE-
        associated signalling until after current SCTP association is failed, or TNL binding update is performed.

Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two end-points, of which one or both
is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. For
SCTP endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from a gNB-CU-CP or a gNB-CU-UP, at any time for an already
established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined in IETF RFC 4960 [6] in sub clause 5.2.




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                 8                        ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)


The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism, initiate higher layer protocols to
reduce the signalling traffic at the source and prioritise certain messages.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15                    9                         ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)



Annex A (informative):
Change history
                                                     Change history
Date       Meeting    TDoc         CR     Rev Cat    Subject/Comment                                                   New
                                                                                                                       version
 2018-02    R3 #99     R3-181421   -         -   -   Endorsed skeleton                                                   0.0.0
 2018-04    R3 #99b    R3-182530   -         -   -   New version including Rapporteur TP from RAN3#99b                   0.1.0
                                                     - R3-182931: Multiple SCTP for E1                                   0.2.0
                                                     - R3-183273: rapporteur updates to 38.462
 2018-06    RAN#80     RP-180768                     Submitted to RAN for approval.                                      1.0.0
 2018-06    RAN#80         -       -         -   -   Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change          15.0.0
                                                     control
 2018-09    RAN#81     RP-181922   0002     2    F   NR Corrections (38.462 Baseline CR covering RAN3-101               15.1.0
                                                     agreements)
 2018-12    RAN#82     RP-182448   0005     1    F   Rapporteur’s CR for TS 38.462                                      15.2.0
 2019-03    RAN#83     RP-190560   0004     4    F   CR Multiple TNLA over E1 transport                                 15.3.0
 2019-07    RAN#84     RP-191399   0007     1    F   Multiple TNLA over E1 transport                                    15.4.0
 2019-09    RAN#85     RP-192167   0010     1    F   Use of SCTP ports for multiple TNLA                                15.5.0
 2019-09    RAN#85     RP-192167   0011     1    F   CR to 38.462 on the introduction of PPID for DTLS over SCTP        15.5.0
 2020-03   RAN#87-e    RP-200429   0012     -    F   Rapporteur updates on editorial errors                             15.6.0
 2020-04                                             Correction of the version number and date in the cover page        15.6.1
 2020-09   RAN#89-e    RP-201955   0014     1    F   SCTP association change when current SCTP association is failed    15.7.0
 2024-03   RAN#103     RP-240642   0021     -    F   Correction on E1AP PPID for DTLS over SCTP                         15.8.0




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.462 version 15.8.0 Release 15             10          ETSI TS 138 462 V15.8.0 (2024-04)



History
                                              Document history
 V15.0.0       July 2018        Publication

 V15.1.0       September 2018   Publication

 V15.2.0       April 2019       Publication

 V15.3.0       May 2019         Publication

 V15.4.0       July 2019        Publication

 V15.5.0       October 2019     Publication

 V15.6.1       April 2020       Publication

 V15.7.0       November 2020    Publication

 V15.8.0       April 2024       Publication




                                                    ETSI
