---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_411_v1700.pdf
spec: ts_38_411_v1700
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:21Z
---

# ts_38_411_v1700

      ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                           5G;
                         NG-RAN;
                        NG layer 1
         (3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17)
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17                        1                             ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)




                                                            Reference
                                                   RTS/TSGR-0338411vh00

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI
                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                       Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                              Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - APE 7112B
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                           Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° w061004871



                                                       Important notice
                                       The present document can be downloaded from:
                                            http://www.etsi.org/standards-search
 The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
 print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
    existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                     deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format at www.etsi.org/deliver.
    Users of the present document should be aware that the document may be subject to revision or change of status.
                    Information on the current status of this and other ETSI documents is available at
                                  https://portal.etsi.org/TB/ETSIDeliverableStatus.aspx
          If you find errors in the present document, please send your comment to one of the following services:
                                   https://portal.etsi.org/People/CommiteeSupportStaff.aspx
                   If you find a security vulnerability in the present document, please report it through our
                                         Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure Program:
                              https://www.etsi.org/standards/coordinated-vulnerability-disclosure

                                       Notice of disclaimer & limitation of liability
The information provided in the present deliverable is directed solely to professionals who have the appropriate degree of
         experience to understand and interpret its content in accordance with generally accepted engineering or
                                  other professional standard and applicable regulations.
                No recommendation as to products and services or vendors is made or should be implied.
  No representation or warranty is made that this deliverable is technically accurate or sufficient or conforms to any law
and/or governmental rule and/or regulation and further, no representation or warranty is made of merchantability or fitness
                     for any particular purpose or against infringement of intellectual property rights.
        In no event shall ETSI be held liable for loss of profits or any other incidental or consequential damages.

   Any software contained in this deliverable is provided "AS IS" with no warranties, express or implied, including but not
 limited to, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property
 rights and ETSI shall not be held liable in any event for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages
for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of or related to the use
                                                 of or inability to use the software.

                                                   Copyright Notification
No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and
                             microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
             The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                          © ETSI 2022.
                                                       All rights reserved.




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17                   2                        ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The declarations
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, are publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be
found in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to
ETSI in respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the
ETSI Web server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI Directives including the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation regarding the essentiality of IPRs,
including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not
referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web server) which are, or may be, or may become,
essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
Members. 3GPP™ and LTE™ are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the 3GPP
Organizational Partners. oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the
oneM2M Partners. GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under http://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17                                           3                                  ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Abbreviations ...........................................................................................................................................5
4        Introduction ..............................................................................................................................................5
5        Layer 1 specifications...............................................................................................................................5
6        Interface to management plane.................................................................................................................6
Annex A (informative):                         Change history .................................................................................................7
History ................................................................................................................................................................8




                                                                                ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17                  4                        ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17                       5                         ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)



1                Scope
The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement layer 1 on the NG interface.

The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M requirements are not in the scope of the present
document.

In the following, 'layer 1' and 'physical layer' are assumed to be synonymous.



2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".



3                Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].




4                Introduction
The main functions of layer 1 are summarized in the following:

    -     Interface to physical medium;

    -     Frame delineation;

    -     Line clock extraction capability;

    -     Layer 1 alarms extraction and generation;

    -     Transmission quality control.



5                Layer 1 specifications
The support of any suitable layer 1 technique - like point-to-point or point-to-multipoint techniques - shall not be
prevented.




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17                   6                        ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)



6              Interface to management plane
The description of the interface towards the management plane is out of scope of this document, but at least the
following O&M functions should be foreseen:

    -   Performance monitoring functions;

    -   Alarm status reporting functions;

    -   Synchronisation source management.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17                   7                           ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)



Annex A (informative):
Change history
                                                    Change history
Date       Meeting   TDoc         CR   Rev Cat    Subject/Comment                                                  New
                                                                                                                   version
 2017-04   R3#95b     R3-171214   -       -   -   TS skeleton                                                        0.0.0
 2017-04   R3#95b     R3-171309   -       -   -   Update of the new template and Editor's note                       0.0.1
 2017-05   R3#96      R3-171861   -       -   -   Update of title page and change history                            0.0.2
 2017-05   R3#96      R3-171970   -       -   -   Adding the contents of introduction                                0.1.0
 2017-11   R3#98      R3-174662   -       -   -   Adding the contents of layer 1 specifications, Interface to        0.2.0
                                                  management plane and abbreviations
 2018-01   R3#NR      R3-180510   -       -   -   Updating the title of specification and removing the NG-RAN in    0.3.0
           AH1801                                 Abbreviations section
 2018-06   RAN#80     RP-180986   -       -   -   Version submitted to RAN for approval                              1.0.0
 2018-06   RAN#80                                 Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change         15.0.0
                                                  control
 2020-07   SA#88-e          -     -       -   -   Update to Rel-16 version (MCC)                                    16.0.0
 2022-03   SA#95-e                                Promotion to Release 17 without technical change                  17.0.0




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 17.0.0 Release 17             8           ETSI TS 138 411 V17.0.0 (2022-04)



History
                                              Document history
 V17.0.0       April 2022       Publication




                                                    ETSI
