---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_422_v1504.pdf
spec: ts_38_422_v1504
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:25Z
---

# ts_38_422_v1504

      ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                            5G;
                         NG-RAN;
                  Xn signalling transport
         (3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15)
 3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                         1                           ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)




                                                            Reference
                                                   RTS/TSGR-0338422vf40

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI

                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                      Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                             Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - NAF 742 C
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                            Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° 7803/88




                                                     Important notice

                                     The present document can be downloaded from:
                                          http://www.etsi.org/standards-search

The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
   existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                    deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format at www.etsi.org/deliver.

   Users of the present document should be aware that the document may be subject to revision or change of status.
                   Information on the current status of this and other ETSI documents is available at
                                 https://portal.etsi.org/TB/ETSIDeliverableStatus.aspx

         If you find errors in the present document, please send your comment to one of the following services:
                                  https://portal.etsi.org/People/CommiteeSupportStaff.aspx

                                                Copyright Notification

  No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying
                          and microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
            The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                        © ETSI 2020.
                                                     All rights reserved.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members.
           3GPP™ and LTE™ are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and
                                  of the 3GPP Organizational Partners.
             oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and
                                         of the oneM2M Partners.
           GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.




                                                               ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                   2                        ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The information
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, is publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be found
in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to ETSI in
respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the ETSI Web
server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation, including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee
can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web
server) which are, or may be, or may become, essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under http://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                                                3                                     ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Definitions and abbreviations ...................................................................................................................5
3.1           Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 5
3.2           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 6
4        Xn signalling bearer .................................................................................................................................6
4.1           Functions and protocol stack .............................................................................................................................. 6
5        Data link layer ..........................................................................................................................................6
6        IP layer .....................................................................................................................................................6
7        Transport layer .........................................................................................................................................7
Annex A (informative):                           Change history .................................................................................................8
History ................................................................................................................................................................9




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                  4                        ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                       5                         ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)



1                Scope
The present document specifies the standards for signalling transport to be used across Xn interface. The Xn interface
provides means for interconnecting two NG-RAN nodes. The Xn interface is a logical interface between two nodes of
the NG-RAN. The present document describes how the XnAP signalling messages are transported over Xn.



2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

    [2]                 IETF RFC 4960: "Stream Control Transmission Protocol".

    [3]                 3GPP TS 38.300: "NR; Overall Description; Stage 2".

    [4]                 IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification".

    [5]                 IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): "Internet Protocol".

    [6]                 IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): "Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4
                        and IPv6 Headers".

    [7]                 IETF RFC 6083 (2011-01): "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for Stream Control
                        Transmission Protocol (SCTP)".

    [8]                 IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): "Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the
                        Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry".



3                Definitions and abbreviations

3.1              Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP
TR 21.905 [1].

NG-RAN node: as defined in TS 38.300 [3]

Xn: interface between two NG-RAN nodes, providing an interconnection point between the NG-RAN nodes.

Xn-C: Reference point for the control plane protocol between NG-RAN nodes.




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                     6                       ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)


3.2            Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].

    IP                Internet Protocol
    SCTP              Stream Control Transmission Protocol
    DiffServ          Differentiated Service
    PPP               Point to Point Protocol
    IANA              Internet Assigned Number Authority


4              Xn signalling bearer

4.1            Functions and protocol stack
Xn-C signalling bearer provides the following functions:

    -   Provision of reliable transfer of XnAP message over Xn-C interface.

    -   Provision of networking and routeing function.

    -   Provision of redundancy in the signalling network.

    -   Support for flow control and congestion control.

The protocol stack for Xn-C Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and details on each protocol are described in the
following clauses.



                           Radio
                           Network                 XnAP
                           Layer



                                                   SCTP

                           Transport                 IP
                           Network
                           Layer               Data link layer

                                               Physical layer

                               Figure 4.1-1: Xn-C signalling bearer protocol stack

The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top of IP.



5              Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet, etc., shall not be prevented.



6              IP layer
The NG-RAN node shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [4]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC 791 [5]).




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                     7                         ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)


The IP layer of Xn-C only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering XnAP message.

The NG-RAN node shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in IETF RFC 2474 [6].



7              Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [2]) shall be supported as the transport layer of Xn-C signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol
Identifier assigned by IANA to be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol XnAP is 61, and 67 for DTLS over
SCTP (IETF RFC 6083 [7]).

SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the Sigtran working group of the IETF for the
purpose of transporting various signalling protocols over IP network.

An NG RAN node shall support a configuration with a single SCTP association per NG RAN node pair. Configurations
with multiple SCTP endpoints per the NG RAN node pair should be supported. When configurations with multiple
SCTP associations are supported, the NG RAN node may request to dynamically add/remove SCTP associations
between the NG RAN node pair. Within the set of SCTP associations established between one NG RAN node pair, a
single SCTP association shall be employed for XnAP elementary procedures that utilize non-UE-associated signalling
with the possibility of fail-over to a new association to enable robustness. The SCTP Destination Port number value
assigned by IANA to be used for XnAP is 38422. When a NG-RAN node requests to dynamically add additional SCTP
associations between the NG RAN node pair, the SCTP Destination Port number value may be 38422, or any dynamic
port value (IETF RFC 6335 [8]). The NG RAN node configuration update procedure shall be the first XnAP procedure
triggered on an additional TNLA of an already setup Xn-C interface instance after the TNL association has become
operational, and the peer NG RAN node shall associate the TNLA to the Xn-C interface instance using the included
Global NG-RAN Node ID.

Between one pair of two NG-RAN nodes:

    -   a single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over an SCTP association for the sole use of XnAP
        elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated signalling.

    -   At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP associations shall be reserved for the sole use of
        XnAP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated signallings. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than one)
        should be reserved.

    -   For a single UE-associated signalling, the NG RAN nodes shall use one SCTP association and one SCTP stream
        and the SCTP association/stream should not be changed during the communication of the UE-associated
        signalling unless TNL binding update is performed.

Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two end-points, of which one or both
is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. For
SCTP endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from one NG-RAN node, at any time for an already established SCTP
association, which shall be handled as defined in IETF RFC 4960 [2] in sub clause 5.2.

The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism, initiate higher layer protocols to
reduce the signalling traffic at the source and prioritise certain messages.




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15                  8                         ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)



Annex A (informative):
Change history
                                                    Change history
Date       Meeting   TDoc         CR     Rev Cat   Subject/Comment                                               New
                                                                                                                 version
 2018-01    RAN3-     R3-180544                    Reflected agreed TP in RAN3-AH-1801 in 2018-01 (Sophia          0.2.0
           AH-1801                                 Antipolis)
 2018-05   RAN3#10    R3-183596                    Reflected agreed TP in RAN3#100 in 2018-05 (Busan) and made    0.3.0
              0                                    some editorial corrections
 2018-06   RAN#80     RP-180682                    Submitted to RAN plenary for Approval                           1.0.0
 2018-06   RAN#80     RP-181276                    Typos corrected ("NGAP" corrected to "XnAP" in two places)      1.0.1
 2018-06   RAN#80                 -        -   -   Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change      15.0.0
                                                   control
 2018-09   RAN#81     RP-181920   0001     -   F   Updated reference to IPv6                                      15.1.0
 2018-12   RAN#82     RP-182447   0003     -   F   Enabling multiple SCTP associations                            15.2.0
 2019-09   RAN#85     RP-192166   0005     1   F   CR on PPID value for DTLS over SCTP                            15.3.0
 2019-09   RAN#85     RP-192167   0007     1   F   Use of SCTP ports for multiple TNLA                            15.3.0
 2019-12   RAN#86     RP-192915   0008     -   F   Ambiguity with multiple SCTP associations in 38.422            15.4.0




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.422 version 15.4.0 Release 15             9           ETSI TS 138 422 V15.4.0 (2020-01)



History
                                              Document history
 V15.0.0       July 2018        Publication

 V15.1.0       September 2018   Publication

 V15.2.0       April 2019       Publication

 V15.3.0       October 2019     Publication

 V15.4.0       January 2020     Publication




                                                    ETSI
