---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_202_v1804.pdf
spec: ts_38_202_v1804
converted: 2026-06-30T10:21:50Z
---

# ts_38_202_v1804

      ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                            5G;
                            NR;
           Services provided by the physical layer
         (3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18)
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                        1                             ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)




                                                            Reference
                                                    RTS/TSGR-0138202vi40

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI
                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                       Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                              Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - APE 7112B
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                           Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° w061004871



                                                       Important notice
                                     The present document can be downloaded from the
                                       ETSI Search & Browse Standards application.
 The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
 print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
    existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                         deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format on ETSI deliver.
               Users should be aware that the present document may be revised or have its status changed,
                                  this information is available in the Milestones listing.
                         If you find errors in the present document, please send your comments to
                                  the relevant service listed under Committee Support Staff.
                   If you find a security vulnerability in the present document, please report it through our
                                     Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure (CVD) program.

                                       Notice of disclaimer & limitation of liability
The information provided in the present deliverable is directed solely to professionals who have the appropriate degree of
         experience to understand and interpret its content in accordance with generally accepted engineering or
                                  other professional standard and applicable regulations.
                No recommendation as to products and services or vendors is made or should be implied.
  No representation or warranty is made that this deliverable is technically accurate or sufficient or conforms to any law
and/or governmental rule and/or regulation and further, no representation or warranty is made of merchantability or fitness
                     for any particular purpose or against infringement of intellectual property rights.
        In no event shall ETSI be held liable for loss of profits or any other incidental or consequential damages.

   Any software contained in this deliverable is provided "AS IS" with no warranties, express or implied, including but not
 limited to, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property
 rights and ETSI shall not be held liable in any event for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages
for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of or related to the use
                                                 of or inability to use the software.

                                                   Copyright Notification
No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and
                             microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
             The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                          © ETSI 2024.
                                                       All rights reserved.




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                   2                        ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The declarations
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, are publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be
found in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to
ETSI in respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the
ETSI Web server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI Directives including the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation regarding the essentiality of IPRs,
including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not
referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web server) which are, or may be, or may become,
essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
Members. 3GPP™ and LTE™ are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the 3GPP
Organizational Partners. oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the
oneM2M Partners. GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under https://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                                                 3                                     ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations .....................................................................................5
3.1           Terms.................................................................................................................................................................. 5
3.2           Symbols .............................................................................................................................................................. 5
3.3           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 5
4        Services and functions of the physical layer ............................................................................................6
4.1           General ............................................................................................................................................................... 6
4.2           Overview of L1 functions ................................................................................................................................... 6
5        Model of physical layer of the UE ...........................................................................................................7
5.1           Uplink model ...................................................................................................................................................... 7
5.1.1            Uplink shared channel .................................................................................................................................. 7
5.1.2            Random access channel ................................................................................................................................ 8
5.2           Downlink model ................................................................................................................................................. 8
5.2.1            Downlink shared channel.............................................................................................................................. 8
5.2.2            Broadcast channel ......................................................................................................................................... 8
5.2.3            Paging channel .............................................................................................................................................. 9
5.3           Sidelink model.................................................................................................................................................. 10
5.3.1            Sidelink shared channel .............................................................................................................................. 10
5.3.2            Broadcast channel ....................................................................................................................................... 11
6        Simultaneous transmission and reception of physical channels and physical signals ............................12
6.1           Uplink ............................................................................................................................................................... 12
6.2           Downlink .......................................................................................................................................................... 13
6.3           Sidelink ............................................................................................................................................................ 15
7        Measurements provided by the physical layer .......................................................................................17
7.1           UE measurements ............................................................................................................................................. 17

Annex A (informative):                           Change history ...............................................................................................18
History ..............................................................................................................................................................21




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                  4                        ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                   5                        ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



1             Scope
The present document is a technical specification of the services provided by the physical layer of 5G-NR to upper
layers.



2             References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    [1]              3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications"

    [2]              3GPP TS 38.201: "NR; Physical Layer – General Description"

    [3]              3GPP TS 38.211: "NR; Physical channels and modulation"

    [4]              3GPP TS 38.212: "NR; Multiplexing and channel coding"

    [5]              3GPP TS 38.213: "NR; Physical layer procedures for control"

    [6]              3GPP TS 38.214: "NR; Physical layer procedures for data"

    [7]              3GPP TS 38.215: "NR; Physical layer measurements"

    [8]              3GPP TS 38.306: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities"




3             Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations

3.1           Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A
term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].


3.2           Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:


3.3           Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
TR 21.905 [1].

For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:

    ARQ              Automatic Repeat Request
    BCH              Broadcast Channel
    CA               Carrier Aggregation
    CRC              Cyclic Redundancy Check
    DC               Dual Connectivity
    DL               Downlink
    FEC              Forward Error Correction
    GF               Grant-Free
    MAC              Medium Access Control




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                     6                      ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


    MIMO              Multiple Input Multiple Output
    PBCH              Physical Broadcast Channel
    PCH               Paging Channel
    PDCCH             Physical Downlink Control Channel
    PDSCH             Physical Downlink Shared Channel
    PRACH             Physical Random Access Channel
    PUCCH             Physical Uplink Control Channel
    PUSCH             Physical Uplink Shared Channel
    RACH              Random Access Channel
    RF                Radio Frequency
    RNTI              Radio Network Temporary Identifier
    SCH               Shared Channel
    SI                System Information
    SPS               Semi-Persistent Scheduling
    SRS               Sounding Reference Signal
    TPC               Transmit Power Control
    UL                Uplink




4              Services and functions of the physical layer

4.1            General
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers.

The access to these services is through the use of transport channels via the MAC sub-layer.

A transport block is defined as the data delivered by MAC layer to the physical layer and vice versa.


4.2            Overview of L1 functions
As mentioned in [2, TS 38.201], the physical layer is expected to perform the following functions to provide the data
transport service:

    -   Error detection on the transport channel and indication to higher layers;

    -   FEC encoding/decoding of the transport channel;

    -   Hybrid ARQ soft-combining;

    -   Rate matching of the coded transport channel to physical channels;

    -   Mapping of the coded transport channel onto physical channels;

    -   Power weighting of physical channels;

    -   Modulation and demodulation of physical channels;

    -   Frequency and time synchronisation;

    -   Radio characteristics measurements and indication to higher layers;

    -   Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) antenna processing;

    -   RF processing.

L1 functions are modelled for each transport channel in clause 5.




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                      7                         ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



5                    Model of physical layer of the UE
The 5G-NR physical-layer model captures those characteristics of the 5G-NR physical-layer that are relevant from the
point-of-view of higher layers. More specifically, the physical-layer model captures:

    -   The structure of higher-layer data being passed down to or up from the physical layer;

    -   The means by which higher layers can configure the physical layer;

    -   The different indications (error indications, channel-quality indications, etc.) that are provided by the physical
        layer to higher layers.


5.1                  Uplink model
5.1.1                Uplink shared channel
The physical-layer model for Uplink Shared Channel transmission is described based on the corresponding PUSCH
physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.1.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue.

    -   Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer

    -   CRC and transport-block-error indication

    -   FEC and rate matching

    -   Data modulation

    -   Mapping to physical resource

    -   Multi-antenna processing

    -   Support of L1 control and Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling




                                                                                                                             lo
                                                                                                                              trn
            re                                                                                                                  oc
             lu                                                                                                                  no
              de                                                                                                                  is
               hc                                                                                                                  si
                s                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                    sn
                CA                                                                                                                   art
                 M                                                                                                                     kn
                                                                                                                                        il
                                                                                                                                         pU




                          Figure 5.1.1-1: Physical-layer model for UL-SCH transmission




                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                      8                       ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


5.1.2         Random access channel
The physical-layer model for RACH transmission is characterized by a PRACH preamble format that consists of a
cyclic prefix, a preamble, and a guard time during which nothing is transmitted.


5.2           Downlink model
5.2.1         Downlink shared channel
The physical-layer model for Downlink Shared Channel transmission is described based on the corresponding PDSCH
physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.2.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue.

   -   Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;

   -   CRC and transport-block-error indication;

   -   FEC and rate matching;

   -   Data modulation;

   -   Mapping to physical resource;

   -   Multi-antenna processing;

   -   Support of L1 control and Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling.




                        Figure 5.2.1-1: Physical-layer model for DL-SCH transmission




5.2.2         Broadcast channel
The physical-layer model for BCH transmission is characterized by a fixed pre-defined transport format. There is one
transport block for the BCH every 80ms. The BCH physical-layer model is described based on the corresponding
PBCH physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.2.2-1:




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                      9                    ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


   -   Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;

   -   CRC and transport-block-error indication;

   -   FEC and rate matching;

   -   Data modulation;

   -   Mapping to physical resource;

   -   Multi-antenna processing.




                          Figure 5.2.2-1: Physical-layer model for BCH transmission




5.2.3         Paging channel
The physical-layer model for PCH transmission is described based on the corresponding physical-layer-processing
chain, see Figure 5.2.3-1. The PCH is carried on PDSCH. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer
model, e.g. in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue.

   -   Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;

   -   CRC and transport-block-error indication;

   -   FEC and rate matching;

   -   Data modulation;

   -   Mapping to physical resource;

   -   Multi-antenna processing.




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                    10                        ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)




                          Figure 5.2.3-1: Physical-layer model for PCH transmission


5.3           Sidelink model
5.3.1         Sidelink shared channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Shared Channel transmission is described based on the corresponding SL-SCH
physical-layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.3.1-1. Processing steps that are relevant for the physical-layer model, e.g.
in the sense that they are configurable by higher layers, are highlighted in blue.

   -   Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;

   -   CRC and transport-block-error indication;

   -   FEC and rate matching;

   -   Data modulation;

   -   Mapping to physical resource;

   -   Multi-antenna processing;

   -   Support of L1 control and Hybrid-ARQ-related signalling.




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                                          11            ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



                                                 Transmitter UE                             Receiver UE
                                                                                                             Error
                                                                                                          indications
        Channel state
       information, etc.
                                                                     ACK/NACK
                                                                                            ACK/NACK
                                  HARQ                               HARQ info              HARQ info                   HARQ

                                                        CRC                                         CRC




                                                                                                                                         Sidelink transmission control
             MAC scheduler




                                                    Coding + RM                                Decoding + RM
                              Redundancy                                                                                  Redundancy
                                version                                                                                     version

                                                   Data modulation                           Data demodulation
                                Modulation                                                                                 Modulation
                                 scheme                                                                                     scheme
                                                  Resource mapping                          Resource demapping
                             Resource/power                                                                             Resource/power
                               assignment                                                                                 assignment

                                                  Antenna mapping                           Antenna demapping
                                Antenna
                                mapping




                                             Figure 5.3.1-1: Physical-layer model for SL-SCH transmission


5.3.2                        Broadcast channel
The physical-layer model for Sidelink Broadcast Channel transmission is characterized by a fixed pre-defined transport
format. There is one transport block for every slot in which the UE transmits SL-BCH, if the UE is configured to
transmit on SL-BCH. The SL-BCH physical-layer model is described based on the corresponding SL-BCH physical-
layer-processing chain, see Figure 5.3.2-1:

   -      Higher-layer data passed to/from the physical layer;

   -      CRC and transport-block-error indication;

   -      FEC and rate matching;

   -      Data modulation;

   -      Mapping to physical resource;

   -      Multi-antenna processing.




                                                                                 ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                                                12                       ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


                                                        Transmitter UE                                   Receiver UEError
                                                                                                                           indication




                                                               CRC                                               CRC
    Sidelink Transmission Control




                                                          Coding + RM                                     Decoding +     RM


                                                          Data modulation                                  Data demodulation
                                     Resource / power
                                        assignment
                                                          Resource mapping                                 Resource demapping



                                                         Antenna mapping                                  Antenna demapping




                                                        Figure 5.3.2-1: Physical-layer model for SL-BCH transmission



6                                           Simultaneous transmission and reception of physical
                                            channels and physical signals
This clause describes the requirements from the UE to send and receive multiple physical channels and physical signals
simultaneously depending on the capabilities and service requirements. The following notation is used between both the
uplink and downlink clauses below.

                  -                 p is the number of uplink carriers configured for the UE on which physical channels can be transmitted

                  -                 p' is the number of uplink carriers configured for the UE on which SRS can be transmitted

                  -                 q is the number of downlink carriers configured for the UE

                  -                 j is the number of cell groups configured for the UE.

                  -                 k is the number of PUCCH groups configured for the UE.


6.1                                         Uplink
The tables 6.1-1 and 6.1-2 describe the possible combinations of physical channels and SRS that can be sent in
simultaneously in the uplink by one UE. Table 6.1-1 introduces notation for a "Transmission Type" which represents a
physical channel or sounding reference signal, and any associated transport channel. Table 6.1-2 describes the
combinations of these "Transmission Types" which are supported by the UE depending on capabilities [8, TS 38.306],
and enumerates how many of each can be transmitted simultaneously.




                                                                                       ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                         13                      ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


                                       Table 6.1-1: Uplink "Transmission Types"
  "Transmission          Physical Channel or SRS                Associated                                    Comment
       Type"                                               Transport Channel
         A                       PRACH                            RACH                                      Note 1, Note 3
         B                       PUCCH                             N/A
         C                       PUSCH                           UL-SCH                                     Note 2, Note 3
         D                         SRS                             N/A
 Note 1: RACH corresponds to contention based.
 Note 2: UCI on PUSCH without UL-SCH is possible.
 Note 3: For SCell, MsgA PRACH and MsgA PUSCH is not supported.


                            Table 6.1-2: Uplink "Transmission Type" combinations

                            Supported Combinations                                                     Comment
                                             jxA                                                         Note 1
                                            kxB                                                          Note 2
                                      (∑௜ୀଵ ௜ ) ×C
                                        ௣
                                                                                                Note 3, Note 4, Note 10
                                            p' x D                                                   Note 3, Note 5
                                     ̃ × A +  ×B                                                      Note 6
                               ̃ × A + (∑ ) ×C෤
                                                  ௣
                                                  పୀଵ       ప
                                                                                                    Note 6, Note 10
                                     ̃ × A + ′ ×D                                                       Note 6
                                × B + (∑  ) ×C  ො
                                                  ௣
                                                  పୀଵ       ప
                                                                                                    Note 8, Note 10
                                  B + (∑  ) ×C
                                             ොᇱ
                                             ௣          ᇱ
                                                        ௜
                                                                                                    Note 9, Note 10
                                             ௜ୀଵ

                                     × B + ′ ×D                                                        Note 7
                               (∑        ) ×C + ′ ×D
                                  ෤
                                  ௣
                                         ௜
                                                                                                    Note 7, Note 10
                                  ௜ୀଵ

 Note 1:  The number of cell groups j in the supported combination is subject to UE capability.
 Note 2:  The number of PUCCH groups k in the supported combination is subject to UE capability.
 Note 3:  The number of carriers p, and p' in the supported combinations are subject to UE capability.
 Note 4:  In the case there is one SUL carrier, then p-1 would be supported.
 Note 5:  UE may be configured with p' but may also have capability to simultaneously sound less than this number.
 Note 6:  Simultaneous PRACH with PUCCH (or PUSCH or SRS) is supported only in the case of inter-band CA, with ̃ ≤
          ,  ≤ , ≤ , and ′ ≤ ' depending on the configuration, and subject to UE capability for parallel
          transmission.
 Note 7: Simultaneous SRS with PUCCH (or PUSCH) is supported only in the case of inter-band CA, with  ≤  , ≤ ,
          and ′ ≤ ' depending on the configuration, and subject to UE capability for parallel transmission.
 Note 8: Simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH(s) for the case that multiple PUCCH groups are configured and the
          respective PUCCH and PUSCH(s) are transmitted in the different PUCCH groups, with  <  and ̂ ≤ .  and
               are subject to UE capability for supported number of PUCCH groups and UL carriers, respectively.  and ̂
          depend on configuration.
 Note 9: Simultaneous PUCCH and PUSCH(s) within the same PUCCH group in the case of inter-band CA,
            ̂ ᇱ depending on the configuration, and subject to UE capability for parallel transmission of PUCCH and PUSCH
          within the same PUCCH group.
 Note 10: Simultaneous transmission of up to 2 PUSCHs within the same active UL BWP, with , , ̂ , ̂ ᇱ depending on
          the configuration, ௜ ,  ௜ , ௜ , ௜ᇱ equal to 1 or 2, subject to UE capability for parallel transmission of PUSCH and
          PUSCH within the same active UL BWP.




6.2           Downlink
The tables 6.2-1, 6.2-2 describe the possible combinations of physical channels that can be received simultaneously in
the downlink by one UE. Table 6.2-1 introduces notation for a "Reception Type" which represents a physical channel
and any associated transport channel. Table 6.2-2 describes the combinations of these "Reception Types" which are
supported by the UE depending on capabilities [8, TS 38.306], and enumerates how many of each can be received
simultaneously. The UE shall be able to receive all TBs according to the indication on PDCCH. Any subset of the
combinations specified in table 6.2-2 is also supported.




                                                                ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                 14                    ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


                                  Table 6.2-1: Downlink "Reception Types"
   "Reception     Physical Channel(s)                Monitored              Associated               Comment
     Type"                                             RNTI              Transport Channel
       A         PBCH                      N/A                          BCH
       B         PDCCH+PDSCH               SI-RNTI                      DL-SCH                 Note 1
       C0        PDCCH                     P-RNTI                       N/A                    Note 1, Note 2
       C1        PDCCH+PDSCH               P-RNTI                       PCH                    Note 1
       D0        PDCCH+PDSCH               RA-RNTI or Temporary C-      DL-SCH                 Note 3
                                           RNTI or MsgB-RNTI
       D1        PDCCH+PDSCH               C-RNTI, CS-RNTI, MCS-C-      DL-SCH
                                           RNTI
       D2        PDCCH                     C-RNTI, CS-RNTI, MCS-C-      DL-SCH
                                           RNTI
       D3        PDCCH+PDSCH               G-RNTI, G-CS-RNTI            DL-SCH                 Note 6
       D4        PDCCH                     G-CS-RNTI                    N/A                    Note 7
       D5        PDCCH+PDSCH               MCCH-RNTI                    DL-SCH                 Note 8
       D6        PDCCH+PDSCH               G-RNTI                       DL-SCH                 Note 9
       D7        PDCCH+PDSCH               C-RNTI                       DL-SCH                 Note 10
       D8        PDCCH+PDSCH               Multicast MCCH-RNTI          DL-SCH                 Note 11
       E         PDCCH                     C-RNTI                       N/A                    Note 4
       F0        PDCCH                     Temporary C-RNTI             UL-SCH                 Note 3
       F1        PDCCH                     C-RNTI, CS-RNTI, MCS-C-      UL-SCH
                                           RNTI
       F2        PDCCH                     C-RNTI, CS-RNTI              UL-SCH                 Note 10
       G         PDCCH                     SFI-RNTI                     N/A

       H         PDCCH                     INT-RNTI                     N/A
       J0        PDCCH                     TPC-PUSCH-RNTI               N/A

       J1        PDCCH                     TPC-PUCCH-RNTI               N/A

       J2        PDCCH                     TPC-SRS-RNTI                 N/A
       K         PDCCH                     SP-CSI-RNTI                  N/A
       L0        PDCCH                     SL-RNTI                      SL-SCH
       L1        PDCCH                     SL-CS-RNTI                   SL-SCH
       M         PDCCH                     SL Semi-Persistent           SL-SCH                 Note 5
                                           Scheduling V-RNTI
       N         PDCCH                     PS-RNTI                      N/A
       O         PDCCH                     AI-RNTI                      N/A
       P         PDCCH                     CI-RNTI                      N/A
       Q         PDCCH                     PEI-RNTI                     N/A                    Note 1
  Note 1:    These are received from PCell only.
  Note 2:    In some cases UE is only required to monitor the short message within the DCI for P-RNTI.
  Note 3:    These are received from PCell or PSCell.
  Note 4:    This corresponds to PDCCH-ordered PRACH.
  Note 5:    This corresponds to PDCCH scheduling LTE PC5.
  Note 6:    This is for multicast in RRC connected state.
  Note 7:    This corresponds to DL Semi-Persistent Scheduling release for multicast in RRC connected state.
  Note 8:    This is for broadcast MCCH.
  Note 9:    This is for broadcast MTCH. UE is not required to decode more than one PDSCH for MTCH simultaneously.
  Note 10:   This is for small data transmission in RRC inactive state.
  Note 11:   This is for multicast MCCH in RRC inactive state.


                          Table 6.2-2: Downlink "Reception Type" combinations




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                  15                        ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


                                      Supported Combinations                                                 Comment
                 PCell                           PSCell                              SCell
  1. RRC_IDLE
  1.1 All UEs
    A + (B and/or (C1 or Q) and/or                                                                             Note 1
              D0) + F0

  1.2 UEs supporting MBS broadcast reception

                   A+D5


  2. RRC_INACTIVE
  2.1 All UEs
     A + (B and/or (C0 or C1 or Q)                                                                             Note 1
    and/or (D0 or D7)) + (F0 or F2)
  2.2 UEs supporting MBS broadcast reception

                   A+D5


  2.3 UE supporting MBS multicast reception
                  A+D8


  3. RRC_CONNECTED
  (A + ((C0 + (B and/or (D0 or          (A + (D0 or (m1*D1+m2*D2))            m1*D1 + m2*D2 +               Note 2, Note 3,
  (m1*D1+m2*D2+((m3*D3+m4*D4)           + E + F0 + n*F1 + G + H + J0     ((m3*D3+m4*D4) or m5*(D5           Note 4, Note 5,
  or m5*(D5 or D6))))) + E + F0 +        + J1 + J2 + K + O + N + P)       or D6)) + E + n*F1 + G + H        Note 6, Note 7,
  n*F1 + G + H + J0 + J1 + J2 + K +                                      + J0 + J1 + J2 + K + O + L0        Note 8, Note 9,
  O + L0 + L1 + M + N + P) or D5))                                               + L1 + M + P              Note 10, Note 11,
                                                                                                           Note 12, Note13,
                                                                                                                Note 14
  Note 1:    UE is not required to decode more than two PDSCH simultaneously, and decoding prioritization when more
             than two are received is up to UE implementation.
  Note 2:    For PCell, UE is not required to decode SI-RNTI PDSCH simultaneously with C-RNTI PDSCH, unless in FR1.
  Note 3:    Supported combinations are subject to UE capabilities for dual connectivity, carrier aggregation, receiving of
             group TPC commands, pre-emption indication and dynamic SFI monitoring.
  Note 4:    The values of m2 ≥ 0 and n≥ 0 in the supported combinations are subject to the UE capability.
  Note 5:    Support of monitoring PDCCH with SL-RNTI, SL-CS-RNTI, SL Semi-Persistent Scheduling V-RNTI are subject
             to UE capability.
  Note 6:    The values of m1 ≥ 1 in the supported combinations are subject to the UE capability.
  Note 7:    In Active time, a UE is not expected to monitor the DCI format for the PDCCH scrambled by PS-RNTI.
  Note 8:    The PDCCH scrambled by PS-RNTI can only be configured on the PCell and PSCell.
  Note 9:    For a UE supporting MBS multicast reception, the values of 1 ≥ m3 ≥ 0 and m4 ≥ 0 are subject to UE capability
             and applicable to RRC connected UEs. If m3 = 1, then m1 ≤ 1.
  Note 10:   For a UE supporting MBS multicast or broadcast reception, the UE is not expected to be configured
             simultaneously with more than one component carrier for multicast or broadcast reception.
  Note 11:   For a UE supporting MBS broadcast reception, the values of 1≥m5 ≥ 0 are subject to UE capability and
             applicable to RRC connected UEs. If m5=1, then m1≤1.
  Note 12:   For a UE supporting MBS broadcast reception in RRC_CONNECTED state, it is required to support reception
             of FDMed MCCH PDSCH and PBCH in Pcell.
  Note 13:   For a UE supporting MBS multicast or broadcast reception in RRC_CONNECTED state, it is not required to
             support reception of FDMed MCCH PDSCH/broadcast MTCH PDSCH/multicast MTCH PDSCH and SIB
             PDSCH in PCell.
  Note 14:   For a UE supporting MBS multicast or broadcast reception in RRC_CONNECTED state, it is not required to
             support reception of FDMed broadcast MTCH PDSCH/multicast MTCH PDSCH and PBCH in PCell.




6.3             Sidelink
The tables 6.3-1 and 6.3-2 describe the possible combinations of physical channels that can be sent simultaneously in
the sidelink by a UE. Table 6.3-1 introduces notation for a sidelink "Transmission Type" which represents a physical
channel, and any associated transport channel. Table 6.3-2 describes the combinations of these "Transmission Types"



                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                  16                        ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


which are supported by the UE depending on capabilities [8, TS 38.306], and enumerates how many of each can be
transmitted simultaneously.

                                  Table 6.3-1: Sidelink "Transmission Types"
   "Transmission                 Physical Channel                       Associated                      Comment
       Type"                                                         Transport Channel
         A                            PSBCH                               SL-BCH
         B                            PSSCH                               SL-SCH
         C                            PSCCH                               SL-SCH
         D                            PSFCH                                 N/A
         E                            SL PRS                                N/A


                          Table 6.3-2: Sidelink "Transmission Type" combinations
                                  Supported Combinations                                                 Comment
                                               A                                                           Note 2
                                               B                                                           Note 2
                                              C                                                            Note 2
                                               E                                                           Note 4
                                               E                                                           Note 5
                                            ×D                                                            Note 2
                                             B+C                                                           Note 2
 Note 1:   Depending on the UE capability, the UE may be able to perform simultaneous Uplink and Sidelink
           transmissions. If the simultaneous transmission of Sidelink and Uplink is beyond the UE capability, the one not
           prioritized can be dropped according to [TS 38.321].
 Note 2:   Depending on the UE capability, the UE may be able to perform simultaneous sidelink communication
           transmissions of the same sidelink “Transmission Type” combinations across multiple SL carriers.
 Note 3:   Simultaneous transmissions over multiple SL carriers with one or more UL carriers is left up to UE
           implementation.
 Note 4:   Depending on the UE capability, the UE may be able to perform simultaneous SL PRS transmission and
           PSSCH transmission(s) for a shared SL PRS resource pool across multiple SL carriers.
 Note 5:   Depending on the UE capability, applicable for a dedicated SL PRS resource pool across multiple SL carriers.


The tables 6.3-3 and 6.3-4 describe the possible combinations of physical channels that can be received simultaneously
in the sidelink by a UE. Table 6.3-3 introduces notation for a sidelink "Reception Type" which represents a physical
channel, and any associated transport channel. Table 6.3-4 describes the combinations of these "Reception Types"
which are supported by the UE depending on capabilities [8, TS 38.306], and enumerates how many of each can be
received simultaneously.

                                    Table 6.3-3: Sidelink "Reception Types"
     "Reception Type"          Physical Channel                     Associated                          Comment
                                                                 Transport Channel
             A                      PSBCH                             SL-BCH
             B                      PSSCH                             SL-SCH
             C                      PSCCH                             SL-SCH
             D                      PSFCH                               N/A
             E                      SL PRS                              N/A




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                  17                         ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


                            Table 6.3-4: Sidelink "Reception Type" combinations
                                   Supported Combinations                                              Comment
                                                   A
                                                   B                                                 Note 1, Note 2
                                                   C                                                 Note 1, Note 2
                                                   E                                                 Note 3, Note 5
                                              ×E
                                               ଵ                                                         Note 4
                                              M×D                                                        Note 2
                                               B+C                                                   Note 1, Note 2
 Note 1:    Corresponds to simultaneous reception within one sub-channel
 Note 2:    Depending on the UE capability, the UE may be able to perform simultaneous sidelink communication
            receptions of the same sidelink “Reception Type” combinations across multiple SL carriers.
 Note 3:    Applicable for a shared SL PRS resource pool. Corresponds to simultaneous reception within one sub-
            channel.
 Note 4:    Applicable for a dedicated SL PRS resource pool with M1≥1. Corresponds to simultaneous reception within
            one dedicated SL PRS resource pool.
 Note 5:    For a shared SL PRS resource pool, depending on the UE capability, the reception(s) of SL-PRS in a single
            SL carrier can be simultaneously received with PSSCH in other one or more SL carrier(s).




7             Measurements provided by the physical layer

7.1           UE measurements
The list and detailed definition of UE measurements is provided in [7, TS 38.215].




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18    18    ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



Annex A (informative):
Change history




                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                   19                           ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


                                                     Change history
  Date      Meeting    TDoc         CR     Rev Cat   Subject/Comment                                                  New
                                                                                                                      version
  2017-05   RAN1#89    R1-1712013                    Draft skeleton                                                     0.0.0
  2017-07   AH_1706    R1-1712013                    Update for agreements from meetings up to RAN1 NR AH2              0.0.1
  2017-08   RAN1#90    R1-1713371                    Update for agreements from meetings up to RAN1 NR AH2              0.0.2
  2017-08   RAN1#90    R1-1714655                    Update with change marks removed for RAN1 #90 endorsement          0.1.0
  2017-09   RAN1#90    R1-1715320                    Updated with minor editorial changes for review after RAN1 #90     0.1.1
  2017-09    RAN#77    RP-172006                     For information to plenary                                         1.0.0
  2017-10   RAN1#90b   R1-1719229                    Updated for agreements from meetings up to RAN1 #90b               1.0.1
  2017-11   RAN1#91    R1-1721047                    Updated after email discussion                                     1.1.0
  2017-12   RAN1#91    R1-1721340                    Updated to reflect agreements from RAN1 #91                        1.2.0
  2017-12    RAN#78    RP-172630                     Endorsed version for approval by plenary                           2.0.0
  2017-12    RAN#78                                  Approved by plenary – Rel-15 spec under change control            15.0.0
  2018-03    RAN#79    RP-180200 0001       -   F    CR capturing the Jan18 ad-hoc and RAN1#92 meeting                 15.1.0
                                                     agreements
  2018-06    RAN#80    RP-181172 0002       1   F    CR to 38.202 capturing the RAN1#92bis and RAN1#93 meeting         15.2.0
                                                     agreements
  2018-06    RAN#80    RP-181257 0003       -   B    CR to 38.202 capturing the RAN1#92bis and RAN1#93 meeting         15.2.0
                                                     agreements related to URLLC
  2018-09    RAN#81    RP-181789    0004    -   B    CR to 38.202 capturing RAN1#94 meeting agreements                 15.3.0
  2018-12    RAN#82    RP-182523    0005    -   F    CR to 38.202 capturing RAN1#95 meeting agreements                 15.4.0
  2019-06    RAN#84    RP-191277    0006    -   F    Correction to simultaneous reception of DL Channels               15.5.0
  2019-06    RAN#84    RP-191277    0007    -   F    CR on inclusion of TC-RNTI for monitored RNTI for UL-SCH and      15.5.0
                                                     inclusion of monitoring PDCCH ordering PRACH on SCell
  2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192623 0008       1   F    CR on simultaneous transmission of UL channels                    15.6.0
  2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192635 0009       -   B    Introduction of two-step RACH                                     16.0.0
  2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192637 0010       -   B    Introduction of integrated access and backhaul for NR             16.0.0

  2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192638 0011       -   B    Introduction of V2X                                               16.0.0

  2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192639 0012       -   B    Introduction of Physical Layer Enhancements for URLLC             16.0.0

  2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192641 0013       -   B    Introduction of MIMO enhancements                                 16.0.0

  2019-12    RAN#86    RP-192642 0014       -   B    Introduction of UE Power Savings                                  16.0.0

  2020-06   RAN#88-e   RP-200692 0015       -   F    Corrections to MIMO enhancements                                  16.1.0

  2020-09   RAN#89-e   RP-201810 0017       -   F    DL Channel Combination associated with DCI format 2_6             16.2.0
                                                     monitoring

  2020-09   RAN#89-e   RP-201807 0018       -   F    Corrections on 5G V2X sidelink features                           16.2.0

  2021-12   RAN#94-e   RP-212960 0019       -   F    Alignment CR for TS 38.202                                        16.3.0

  2021-12   RAN#94-e   RP-212968 0020       -   B    Introduction of IIoT/URLLC enhancements in NR                     17.0.0

  2021-12   RAN#94-e   RP-212979 0021       -   B    Introduction of multicast and broadcast services                  17.0.0

  2022-03   RAN#95-e   RP-220263 0022       -   F    Corrections to NR support of multicast and broadcast services     17.1.0

  2022-03   RAN#95-e   RP-220256 0023       -   F    Corrections on NR UE Power Saving Enhancements                    17.1.0

  2022-06    RAN#96    RP-221612 0024       -   F    Corrections to NR support of multicast and broadcast services     17.2.0

  2022-12   RAN#98-e   RP-222864 0025       -   F    CR on the MBS reception type combinations to TS 38.202            17.3.0

  2023-09   RAN#101    RP-232450 0026       -   F    Correction on simultaneous reception of SDT and other channels    17.4.0
                                                     in TS 38.202

  2023-09   RAN#101    RP-232458 0027       -   B    Release 18 TS38.202 Editor CR for MIMO                            18.0.0

  2023-09   RAN#101    RP-232469 0028       -   B    Release 18 TS38.202 Editor CR for NR sidelink evolution           18.0.0

  2023-12   RAN#102    RP-233723 0031       1   A    Correction on NR Sidelink                                         18.1.0

  2023-12   RAN#102    RP-233733 0032       -   B    Release 18 TS38.202 Editor CR for multicast in RRC_INACTIVE       18.1.0
                                                     state

  2023-12   RAN#102    RP-233719 0033       -   F    Release 18 TS38.202 Editor CR for SL-PRS transmission and         18.1.0
                                                     Reception




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18                 20                          ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)


  2024-03   RAN#103   RP-240528 0034       -   F   Release 18 TS38.202 Editor CR for simultaneous SL-PRS            18.2.0
                                                   transmission and Reception

  2024-06   RAN#104   RP-241061 0035       -   F   Correction to 38.202 on support of combination of SL CA and SL   18.3.0
                                                   positioning

  2024-09   RAN#105   RP-242204 0036       -   F   Rel-18 Editorial Corrections for TS 38.202                       18.4.0




                                                       ETSI
3GPP TS 38.202 version 18.4.0 Release 18             21          ETSI TS 138 202 V18.4.0 (2024-10)



History
                                              Document history
 V18.2.0       May 2024         Publication

 V18.3.0       August 2024      Publication

 V18.4.0       October 2024     Publication




                                                    ETSI
