---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_411_v1500.pdf
spec: ts_38_411_v1500
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:21Z
---

# ts_38_411_v1500

      ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                           5G;
                         NG-RAN;
                        NG layer 1
         (3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15)
 3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15                         1                           ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)




                                                            Reference
                                                   DTS/TSGR-0338411vf00

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI

                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                      Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                             Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - NAF 742 C
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                            Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° 7803/88




                                                     Important notice

                                     The present document can be downloaded from:
                                          http://www.etsi.org/standards-search

The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
  existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the only prevailing document is the
       print of the Portable Document Format (PDF) version kept on a specific network drive within ETSI Secretariat.

   Users of the present document should be aware that the document may be subject to revision or change of status.
                   Information on the current status of this and other ETSI documents is available at
                                 https://portal.etsi.org/TB/ETSIDeliverableStatus.aspx

         If you find errors in the present document, please send your comment to one of the following services:
                                  https://portal.etsi.org/People/CommiteeSupportStaff.aspx

                                                Copyright Notification

  No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying
                          and microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
            The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                        © ETSI 2018.
                                                     All rights reserved.

DECTTM, PLUGTESTSTM, UMTSTM and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members.
            3GPPTM and LTETM are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and
                                   of the 3GPP Organizational Partners.
                         oneM2M logo is protected for the benefit of its Members.
            GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.




                                                               ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15                   2                        ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The information
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, is publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be found
in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to ETSI in
respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the ETSI Web
server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation, including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee
can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web
server) which are, or may be, or may become, essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.


Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities, UMTS identities or
GSM identities. These should be interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between GSM, UMTS, 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under
http://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.


Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15                                           3                                  ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Abbreviations ...........................................................................................................................................5
4        Introduction ..............................................................................................................................................5
5        Layer 1 specifications...............................................................................................................................5
6        Interface to management plane.................................................................................................................5
Annex A (informative):                         Change history .................................................................................................7
History ................................................................................................................................................................8




                                                                                ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15                  4                        ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15                       5                         ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)



1                Scope
The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement layer 1 on the NG interface.

The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M requirements are not in the scope of the present
document.

In the following, 'layer 1' and 'physical layer' are assumed to be synonymous.


2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".


3                Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].




4                Introduction
The main functions of layer 1 are summarized in the following:

    -     Interface to physical medium;

    -     Frame delineation;

    -     Line clock extraction capability;

    -     Layer 1 alarms extraction and generation;

    -     Transmission quality control.


5                Layer 1 specifications
The support of any suitable layer 1 technique - like point-to-point or point-to-multipoint techniques - shall not be
prevented.


6                Interface to management plane
The description of the interface towards the management plane is out of scope of this document, but at least the
following O&M functions should be foreseen:

    -     Performance monitoring functions;




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15     6     ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)


   -   Alarm status reporting functions;

   -   Synchronisation source management.




                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15                   7                           ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)



Annex A (informative):
Change history
                                                    Change history
Date       Meeting   TDoc         CR   Rev Cat    Subject/Comment                                                  New
                                                                                                                   version
 2017-04   R3#95b     R3-171214   -       -   -   TS skeleton                                                        0.0.0
 2017-04   R3#95b     R3-171309   -       -   -   Update of the new template and Editor's note                       0.0.1
 2017-05   R3#96      R3-171861   -       -   -   Update of title page and change history                            0.0.2
 2017-05   R3#96      R3-171970   -       -   -   Adding the contents of introduction                                0.1.0
 2017-11   R3#98      R3-174662   -       -   -   Adding the contents of layer 1 specifications, Interface to        0.2.0
                                                  management plane and abbreviations
 2018-01   R3#NR      R3-180510   -       -   -   Updating the title of specification and removing the NG-RAN in    0.3.0
           AH1801                                 Abbreviations section
 2018-06   RAN#80     RP-180986   -       -   -   Version submitted to RAN for approval                              1.0.0
 2018-06   RAN#80                                 Specification approved at TSG-RAN and placed under change         15.0.0
                                                  control




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 38.411 version 15.0.0 Release 15             8           ETSI TS 138 411 V15.0.0 (2018-07)



History
                                              Document history
 V15.0.0       July 2018        Publication




                                                    ETSI
