---
source: specs-pdf/ts_37_213_v1503.pdf
spec: ts_37_213_v1503
converted: 2026-06-30T10:21:45Z
---

# ts_37_213_v1503

      ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                             LTE;
                              5G;
Physical layer procedures for shared spectrum channel access
          (3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15)
 3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                         1                           ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)




                                                            Reference
                                                   RTS/TSGR-0137213vf30

                                                            Keywords
                                                              5G,LTE




                                                               ETSI

                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                      Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                             Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - NAF 742 C
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                            Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° 7803/88




                                                     Important notice

                                     The present document can be downloaded from:
                                          http://www.etsi.org/standards-search

The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
   existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                    deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format at www.etsi.org/deliver.

   Users of the present document should be aware that the document may be subject to revision or change of status.
                   Information on the current status of this and other ETSI documents is available at
                                 https://portal.etsi.org/TB/ETSIDeliverableStatus.aspx

         If you find errors in the present document, please send your comment to one of the following services:
                                  https://portal.etsi.org/People/CommiteeSupportStaff.aspx

                                                Copyright Notification

  No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying
                          and microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
            The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                        © ETSI 2020.
                                                     All rights reserved.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members.
           3GPP™ and LTE™ are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and
                                  of the 3GPP Organizational Partners.
             oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and
                                         of the oneM2M Partners.
           GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.




                                                               ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                   2                        ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The information
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, is publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be found
in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to ETSI in
respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the ETSI Web
server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation, including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee
can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web
server) which are, or may be, or may become, essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under http://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                                                3                                     ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1        Scope ........................................................................................................................................................5
2        References ................................................................................................................................................5
3        Definitions, symbols and abbreviations ...................................................................................................5
3.1           Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 5
3.2           Symbols .............................................................................................................................................................. 5
3.3           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 6
4        Channel access procedure ........................................................................................................................6
4.1           Downlink channel access procedures ................................................................................................................. 6
4.1.1            Channel access procedure for transmission(s) including PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH ................................. 6
4.1.2            Channel access procedure for transmissions including discovery signal transmission(s) and not
                 including PDSCH ......................................................................................................................................... 8
4.1.3            Channel access procedure for transmissions including PDCCH and not including PDSCH ........................ 8
4.1.4            Contention window adjustment procedure ................................................................................................... 8
4.1.5            Energy detection threshold adaptation procedure ......................................................................................... 9
4.1.6            Channel access procedure for transmission(s) on multiple carriers ............................................................ 10
4.1.6.1              Type A multi-carrier access procedures ................................................................................................ 10
4.1.6.1.1               Type A1 ........................................................................................................................................... 10
4.1.6.1.2               Type A2 ........................................................................................................................................... 10
4.1.6.2              Type B multi-carrier access procedure.................................................................................................. 11
4.1.6.2.1               Type B1 ........................................................................................................................................... 11
4.1.6.2.2               Type B2 ........................................................................................................................................... 11
4.2           Uplink channel access procedures .................................................................................................................... 11
4.2.1            Channel access procedure for uplink transmission(s) ................................................................................. 12
4.2.1.1              Type 1 UL channel access procedure .................................................................................................... 15
4.2.1.2              Type 2 UL channel access procedure .................................................................................................... 16
4.2.2            Contention window adjustment procedure ................................................................................................. 16
4.2.3            Energy detection threshold adaptation procedure ....................................................................................... 18
4.2.3.1              Default maximum energy detection threshold computation procedure ................................................. 18

Annex X (informative):                           Change history ...............................................................................................20
History ..............................................................................................................................................................21




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                  4                        ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

      x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

      y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
        updates, etc.

      z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                       5                         ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)



1                 Scope
The present document specifies and establishes the characteristics of the physical layer procedures for shared spectrum
channel.



2                 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

    [2]                 3GPP TS 36.104: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base Station (BS)
                        radio transmission and reception".

    [3]                 3GPP TS 36.101: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE)
                        radio transmission and reception".

    [4]                 3GPP TS 36.213: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Physical layer
                        procedures".




3                 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations

3.1               Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in TR 21.905 [1] apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].


3.2               Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

    CW p                Contention window for a given priority class
    CW max, p           Maximum contention window for a given priority class
    CWmin, p            Minimum contention window for a given priority class
    Tm cot, p           Maximum channel occupancy time for a given priority class
    Tulm cot, p         Maximum Uplink channel occupancy time for a given priority class
    X Thresh            Energy detection threshold
    X Thresh_max        Maximum energy detection threshold




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                       6                         ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


3.3            Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
TR 21.905 [1].

    AUL-DFI           Autonomous UL Downlink feedback indication
    COT               Channel Occupancy Time
    LAA               Licensed Assisted Access
    MCOT              Maximum Channel Occupancy Time



4              Channel access procedure

4.1            Downlink channel access procedures
An eNB operating LAA Scell(s) shall perform the channel access procedures described in this clause for accessing the
channel(s) on which the LAA Scell(s) transmission(s) are performed.


4.1.1          Channel access procedure for transmission(s) including
               PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH
The eNB may transmit a transmission including PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH on a carrier on which LAA Scell(s)
transmission(s) are performed , after first sensing the channel to be idle during the slot durations of a defer duration Td ;
and after the counter N is zero in step 4. The counter N is adjusted by sensing the channel for additional slot
duration(s) according to the steps below:

    1) set N = N init , where N init is a random number uniformly distributed between 0 and CW p , and go to step 4;

    2) if N > 0 and the eNB chooses to decrement the counter, set N = N − 1 ;

    3) sense the channel for an additional slot duration, and if the additional slot duration is idle, go to step 4; else, go to
       step 5;

    4) if N = 0 , stop; else, go to step 2.

    5) sense the channel until either a busy slot is detected within an additional defer duration Td or all the slots of the
       additional defer duration Td are detected to be idle;

    6) if the channel is sensed to be idle during all the slot durations of the additional defer duration Td , go to step 4;
       else, go to step 5;

If an eNB has not transmitted a transmission including PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH on a carrier on which LAA Scell(s)
transmission(s) are performed after step 4 in the procedure above, the eNB may transmit a transmission including
PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH on the carrier, if the channel is sensed to be idle at least in a slot duration Tsl when the eNB
is ready to transmit PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH and if the channel has been sensed to be idle during all the slot
durations of a defer duration Td immediately before this transmission. If the channel has not been sensed to be idle in a
slot duration Tsl when the eNB first senses the channel after it is ready to transmit or if the channel has been sensed to
be not idle during any of the slot durations of a defer duration Td immediately before this intended transmission, the
eNB proceeds to step 1 after sensing the channel to be idle during the slot durations of a defer duration Td .




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                          7                           ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


The defer duration Td consists of duration T f = 16us immediately followed by m p consecutive slot durations where
each slot duration is Tsl = 9us , and T f includes an idle slot duration Tsl at start of T f ;

A slot duration Tsl is considered to be idle if the eNB senses the channel during the slot duration, and the power
detected by the eNB for at least 4us within the slot duration is less than energy detection threshold X Thresh .
Otherwise, the slot duration Tsl is considered to be busy.

CWmin, p ≤ CW p ≤ CWmax, p is the contention window. CWp adjustment is described in clause 4.1.4.

CWmin, p and CWmax, p are chosen before step 1 of the procedure above.

m p , CWmin, p , and CWmax, p are based on channel access priority class associated with the eNB transmission, as
shown in Table 4.1.1-1.

X Thresh adjustment is described in clause 4.1. 5

If the eNB transmits discovery signal transmission(s) not including PDSCH/PDCCH/EPDCCH when N > 0 in the
procedure above, the eNB shall not decrement N during the slot duration(s) overlapping with discovery signal
transmission.

The eNB shall not continuously transmit on a carrier on which the LAA Scell(s) transmission(s) are performed, for a
period exceeding Tm cot, p as given in Table 4.1.1-1.

For p = 3 and p = 4 , if the absence of any other technology sharing the carrier can be guaranteed on a long term
basis (e.g. by level of regulation), Tm cot, p = 10ms , otherwise, Tm cot, p = 8ms .



                                      Table 4.1.1-1: Channel Access Priority Class
             Channel
              Access
          Priority Class (       mp         CWmin, p      CWmax, p         Tm cot, p           allowed CW p sizes
                 p)
                  1               1               3           7             2 ms                       {3,7}

                  2               1               7           15            3 ms                      {7,15}

                  3               3            15             63        8 or 10 ms                  {15,31,63}

                  4               7            15           1023        8 or 10 ms       {15,31,63,127,255,511,1023}



For LAA operation in Japan, if the eNB has transmitted a transmission after N = 0 in step 4 of the procedure above,
the eNB may transmit the next continuous transmission, for duration of maximum T j =4 ms, immediately after sensing
the channel to be idle for at least a sensing interval of T js =34us and if the total sensing and transmission time is not

                                             
more than 1000 ⋅ Tmcot + Tmcot / T j − 1 ⋅ T js µsec. T js consists of duration T f = 16us immediately followed by
two slot durations Tsl = 9us each and T f includes an idle slot duration Tsl at start of T f . The channel is considered
to be idle for Tjs if it is sensed to be idle during the during the slot durations of Tjs .




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                        8                          ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


4.1.2          Channel access procedure for transmissions including discovery
               signal transmission(s) and not including PDSCH
An eNB may transmit a transmission including discovery signal but not including PDSCH on a carrier on which LAA
Scell(s) transmission(s) are performed immediately after sensing the channel to be idle for at least a sensing interval
Tdrs = 25us and if the duration of the transmission is less than 1 ms. Tdrs consists of a duration T f = 16us
immediately followed by one slot duration Tsl = 9us and T f includes an idle slot duration Tsl at start of T f . The
channel is considered to be idle for Tdrs if it is sensed to be idle during the slot durations of Tdrs .


4.1.3          Channel access procedure for transmissions including PDCCH and
               not including PDSCH
If 'COT sharing indication' in AUL-UCI in subframe n indicates '1', an eNB may transmit a transmission in subframe
n+X, where X is subframeOffsetCOT-Sharing, including PDCCH but not including PDSCH on the same carrier
immediately after sensing the channel to be idle for at least a sensing interval Tpdcch = 25us , if the duration of the
PDCCH is less than or equal to two OFDM symbols length and it shall contain at least AUL-DFI or UL grant to the UE
from which the PUSCH transmission indicating COT sharing was received. Tpdcch consists of a duration T f = 16us
immediately followed by one slot duration Tsl = 9us and T f includes an idle slot duration Tsl at start of T f . The
channel is considered to be idle for Tpdcch if it is sensed to be idle during the slot durations of Tpdcch .


4.1.4          Contention window adjustment procedure
If the eNB transmits transmissions including PDSCH that are associated with channel access priority class p on a
carrier, the eNB maintains the contention window value CW p and adjusts CW p before step 1 of the procedure
described in clause 4.1.1 for those transmissions using the following steps:

                                     {          }
   1) for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 set CWp = CWmin, p

   2) if at least Z = 80% of HARQ-ACK values corresponding to PDSCH transmission(s) in reference subframe k
                                                                                    {          }
       are determined as NACK, increase CW p for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 to the next higher allowed
       value and remain in step 2; otherwise, go to step 1.

Reference subframe k is the starting subframe of the most recent transmission on the carrier made by the eNB, for
which at least some HARQ-ACK feedback is expected to be available.

                                                                          {          }
The eNB shall adjust the value of CW p for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 based on a given reference subframe
k only once.

If CWp = CWmax, p , the next higher allowed value for adjusting CW p is CWmax, p .

For determining Z ,

   -   if the eNB transmission(s) for which HARQ-ACK feedback is available start in the second slot of subframe k ,
       HARQ-ACK values corresponding to PDSCH transmission(s) in subframe k + 1 are also used in addition to the
       HARQ-ACK values corresponding to PDSCH transmission(s) in subframe k .

   -   if the HARQ-ACK values correspond to PDSCH transmission(s) on an LAA SCell that are assigned by
       (E)PDCCH transmitted on the same LAA SCell,

       -   if no HARQ-ACK feedback is detected for a PDSCH transmission by the eNB, or if the eNB detects 'DTX',
           'NACK/DTX' or 'any' state, it is counted as NACK.




                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                     9                        ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


   -   if the HARQ-ACK values correspond to PDSCH transmission(s) on an LAA SCell that are assigned by
       (E)PDCCH transmitted on another serving cell,

       -   if the HARQ-ACK feedback for a PDSCH transmission is detected by the eNB, 'NACK/DTX' or 'any' state is
           counted as NACK, and 'DTX' state is ignored.

       -   if no HARQ-ACK feedback is detected for a PDSCH transmission by the eNB

           -   if PUCCH format 1b with channel selection is expected to be used by the UE, 'NACK/DTX' state
               corresponding to 'no transmission' as described in clauses 10.1.2.2.1, 10.1.3.1 and 10.1.3.2.1 is counted as
               NACK, and 'DTX' state corresponding to 'no transmission' is ignored in [4].

           -   Otherwise, the HARQ-ACK for the PDSCH transmission is ignored.

   -   if a PDSCH transmission has two codewords, the HARQ-ACK value of each codeword is considered separately

   -   bundled HARQ-ACK across M subframes is considered as M HARQ-ACK responses.

If the eNB transmits transmissions including PDCCH/EPDCCH with DCI format 0A/0B/4A/4B and not including
PDSCH that are associated with channel access priority class p on a channel starting from time t0 , the eNB maintains
the contention window value CW p and adjusts CW p before step 1 of the procedure described in clause 4.1.1 for those
transmissions using the following steps:

                                    {         }
   1) for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 set CWp = CWmin, p

   2) if less than 10% of the UL transport blocks scheduled by the eNB using Type 2 channel access procedure
      (described in clause 4.2.1.2) in the time interval between t0 and t0 + TCO have been received successfully,

                                                     {           }
       increase CW p for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 to the next higher allowed value and remain in step 2;
       otherwise, go to step 1.

where TCO is computed as described in clause 4.2.1.

If the CWp = CWmax, p is consecutively used K times for generation of N init , CW p is reset to CWmin, p only for
that priority class p for which CWp = CWmax, p is consecutively used K times for generation of N init . K is

                                                                                 {
selected by eNB from the set of values {1, 2, …,8} for each priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 . }

4.1.5          Energy detection threshold adaptation procedure
An eNB accessing a carrier on which LAA Scell(s) transmission(s) are performed, shall set the energy detection
threshold ( X Thresh ) to be less than or equal to the maximum energy detection threshold X Thresh_max .

X Thresh_max is determined as follows:

   -   If the absence of any other technology sharing the carrier can be guaranteed on a long term basis (e.g. by level of
       regulation) then:

                              T + 10 dB, 
       -   X Thresh_max = min  max       
                              Xr         

           -    X r is Maximum energy detection threshold defined by regulatory requirements in dBm when such
               requirements are defined, otherwise X r = Tmax + 10 dB

   -   Otherwise,




                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                      10                        ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


                                    − 72 + 10 ⋅ log10( BWMHz / 20 MHz ) dBm,             
                                                                                         
        -       X Thres _ max = max     Tmax ,                                         
                                    min T − T + (P + 10 ⋅ log10( BWMHz / 20 MHz )− P )
                                         max     A     H                            TX 


    -   Where:

        -   TA = 10dB for transmission(s) including PDSCH;

        -   TA = 5dB for transmissions including discovery signal transmission(s) and not including PDSCH;

        -   PH = 23 dBm;

        -   PTX is the set maximum eNB output power in dBm for the carrier;

            -     eNB uses the set maximum transmission power over a single carrier irrespective of whether single carrier
                  or multi-carrier transmission is employed

        -   Tmax (dBm) = 10 ⋅ log10 ( 3.16228 ⋅ 10−8 (mW / MHz ) ⋅ BWMHz ( MHz ) ) ;

        -   BWMHz is the single carrier bandwidth in MHz.


4.1.6             Channel access procedure for transmission(s) on multiple carriers
An eNB can access multiple carriers on which LAA Scell(s) transmission(s) are performed, according to one of the
Type A or Type B procedures described in this clause.

4.1.6.1              Type A multi-carrier access procedures
The eNB shall perform channel access on each carrier ci ∈ C , according to the procedures described in clause 4.1.1,
where C is a set of carriers on which the eNB intends to transmit, and i = 0,1,   Kq − 1 , and q is the number of carriers
on which the eNB intends to transmit.

The counter N described in clause 4.1.1 is determined for each carrier ci and is denoted as N ci . N ci is maintained
according to Clause 4.1.6.1.1 or 4.1.6.1.2.

4.1.6.1.1               Type A1

Counter N as described in clause 4.1.1 is independently determined for each carrier ci and is denoted as N ci .

If the absence of any other technology sharing the carrier cannot be guaranteed on a long term basis (e.g. by level of
regulation), when the eNB ceases transmission on any one carrier c j ∈ C , for each carrier ci ≠ c j , the eNB can
resume decrementing N ci when idle slots are detected either after waiting for a duration of 4 ⋅ Tsl , or after
reinitialising N ci .


4.1.6.1.2               Type A2

Counter N is determined as described in clause 4.1.1 for carrier c j ∈ C , and is denoted as N c j , where c j is the

carrier that has the largest CW p value. For each carrier ci , N ci = N c j .

When the eNB ceases transmission on any one carrier for which N ci is determined, the eNB shall reinitialise N ci for
all carriers.



                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                      11                         ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


4.1.6.2           Type B multi-carrier access procedure

A carrier c j ∈ C is selected by the eNB as follows

   -   the eNB selects c j by uniformly randomly choosing c j from C before each transmission on multiple carriers
       ci ∈ C , or

   -   the eNB selects c j no more frequently than once every 1 second,

where C is a set of carriers on which the eNB intends to transmit, i = 0,1,K q − 1 , and q is the number of carriers on
which the eNB intends to transmit.

To transmit on carrier c j

   -   the eNB shall perform channel access on carrier c j according to the procedures described in clause 4.1.1 with
       the modifications described in clause 4.1.6.2.1 or 4.1.6.2.2.

To transmit on carrier ci ≠ c j , ci ∈ C

   -   for each carrier ci , the eNB shall sense the carrier ci for at least a sensing interval Tmc = 25us immediately
       before the transmitting on carrier c j , and the eNB may transmit on carrier ci immediately after sensing the
       carrier ci to be idle for at least the sensing interval Tmc . The carrier ci is considered to be idle for Tmc if the
       channel is sensed to be idle during all the time durations in which such idle sensing is performed on the carrier
       c j in given interval Tmc .

The eNB shall not continuously transmit on a carrier ci ≠ c j , ci ∈ C , for a period exceeding Tm cot, p as given in Table
4.1.1-1, where the value of Tm cot, p is determined using the channel access parameters used for carrier c j .


4.1.6.2.1             Type B1

A single CW p value is maintained for the set of carriers C .
For determining CW p for channel access on carrier c j , step 2 of the procedure described in clause 4.1.4 is modified
as follows
    - if at least Z = 80% of HARQ-ACK values corresponding to PDSCH transmission(s) in reference subframe k
                                                                                                         {
       of all carriers ci ∈ C are determined as NACK, increase CW p for each priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 to the   }
       next higher allowed value; otherwise, go to step 1.

4.1.6.2.2             Type B2

A CW p value is maintained independently for each carrier ci ∈ C using the procedure described in clause 4.1.4.

For determining N init for carrier c j , CW p value of carrier c j1 ∈ C is used, where c j1 is the carrier with largest
CW p among all carriers in set C .


4.2           Uplink channel access procedures
A UE and a eNB scheduling UL transmission(s) for the UE shall perform the procedures described in this clause for the
UE to access the channel(s) on which the LAA Scell(s) transmission(s) are performed.




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                      12                        ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


4.2.1         Channel access procedure for uplink transmission(s)
The UE can access a carrier on which LAA Scell(s) UL transmission(s) are performed according to one of Type 1 or
Type 2 UL channel access procedures. Type 1 channel access procedure is described in clause 4.2.1.1. Type 2 channel
access procedure is described in clause 4.2.1.2.

If an UL grant scheduling a PUSCH transmission indicates Type 1 channel access procedure, the UE shall use Type 1
channel access procedure for transmitting transmissions including the PUSCH transmission unless stated otherwise in
this clause.

A UE shall use Type 1 channel access procedure for transmitting transmissions including the PUSCH transmission on
autonomous UL resources unless stated otherwise in this clause.

If an UL grant scheduling a PUSCH transmission indicates Type 2 channel access procedure, the UE shall use Type 2
channel access procedure for transmitting transmissions including the PUSCH transmission unless stated otherwise in
this clause.

The UE shall use Type 1 channel access procedure for transmitting SRS transmissions not including a PUSCH
transmission. UL channel access priority class p =1 is used for SRS transmissions not including a PUSCH.

If the UE is scheduled to transmit PUSCH and SRS in subframe n , and if the UE cannot access the channel for PUSCH
transmission in subframe n , the UE shall attempt to make SRS transmission in subframe n according to uplink
channel access procedures specified for SRS transmission.

The total length of autonomous uplink transmission(s) obtained by the channel access procedure in this clause,
including the following DL transmission if the UE sets 'COT sharing indication' in AUL-UCI to '1' in a subframe within
the autonomous uplink transmission(s), shall not exceed Tulm cot, p , where Tulm cot, p is given in Table 4.2.1-1.

                                 Table 4.2.1-1: Channel Access Priority Class for UL

           Channel
           Access
           Priority        mp       CWmin, p    CWmax, p             Tulm cot, p           allowed CW p sizes
          Class ( p )

                1            2         3            7                  2 ms                        {3,7}
                2            2         7            15                 4 ms                       {7,15}
                3            3         15         1023             6ms or 10 ms       {15,31,63,127,255,511,1023}
                4            7         15         1023             6ms or 10 ms       {15,31,63,127,255,511,1023}
         NOTE1: For p = 3,4 , Tulm cot, p =10ms if the higher layer parameter 'absenceOfAnyOtherTechnology-
         r14' indicates TRUE, otherwise, Tulm cot, p =6ms.
         NOTE 2: When Tulm cot, p =6ms it may be increased to 8 ms by inserting one or more gaps. The
         minimum duration of a gap shall be 100 µs. The maximum duration before including any such gap shall
         be 6 ms.



If the UL duration and offset' field configures an 'UL offset' l and an 'UL duration' d for subframe n , then

the scheduled UE may use channel access Type 2 for transmissions in subframes n + l + i where i = 0,1, d − 1 ,K
irrespective of the channel access Type signalled in the UL grant for those subframes, if the end of UE transmission
occurs in or before subframe n + l + d − 1 .

If the 'UL duration and offset' field configures an 'UL offset' l and an 'UL duration' d for subframe n and the 'COT

                                                                                                                K
sharing indication for AUL' field is set to true, then a UE configured with autonomous UL may use channel access Type
2 for autonomous UL transmissions corresponding to any priority class in subframes n + l + i where i = 0,1, d − 1 , if




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                      13                              ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


the end of UE autonomous UL transmission occurs in or before subframe n + l + d − 1 and the autonomous UL
transmission between n + l and n + l + d − 1 shall be contiguous.

If the 'UL duration and offset' field configures an 'UL offset' l and an 'UL duration' d for subframe n and the 'COT
sharing indication for AUL' field is set to false, then a UE configured with autonomous UL shall not transmit
                                                         K
autonomous UL in subframes n + l + i where i = 0,1, d − 1 .

If the UE scheduled to transmit transmissions including PUSCH in a set subframes n0 , n1 ,        L, n using PDCCH DCI
                                                                                                       w−1

Format 0B/4B, and if the UE cannot access the channel for a transmission in subframe n k , the UE shall attempt to
make a transmission in subframe n k +1 according to the channel access type indicated in the DCI, where
k ∈ {0,1,   Lw − 2} , and w is the number of scheduled subframes indicated in the DCI.
If the UE is scheduled to transmit transmissions without gaps including PUSCH in a set of subframes n0 , n1 , L , nw−1
using one or more PDCCH DCI Format 0A/0B/4A/4B and the UE performs a transmission in subframe n k after
accessing the carrier according to one of Type 1 or Type 2 UL channel access procedures, the UE may continue
                                                     L
transmission in subframes after n k where k ∈ {0,1, w − 1} .

If the beginning of UE transmission in subframe n + 1 immediately follows the end of UE transmission in subframe n ,
the UE is not expected to be indicated with different channel access types for the transmissions in those subframes.

If the UE is scheduled to transmit transmissions including PUSCH Mode 1 using the Type 1 channel access procedure
indicated in DCI, and if the UE cannot access the channel for a transmission according to the PUSCH starting position
indicated in the DCI, the UE shall attempt to make a transmission at symbol 7 in the same subframe according to Type
1 channel access procedure. There is no limit on the number of attempts the UE can make using Type 1 channel access
procedure.

If the UE is scheduled to transmit transmissions including PUSCH Mode 1 using the Type 2 channel access procedure
indicated in DCI, and if the UE cannot access the channel for a transmission according to the PUSCH starting position
indicated in the DCI, the UE may attempt to make a transmission at symbol 7 in the same subframe and according to
Type 2 channel access procedure. The number of attempts the UE should make within the consecutively scheduled
subframes including the transmission is limited to w + 1 , where w is the number of consecutively scheduled subframes
using Type 2 channel access procedure.

If the UE is scheduled to transmit without gaps in subframes n0 , n1 ,   L, n   w −1   using one or more PDCCH DCI Format
0A/0B/4A/4B, and if the UE has stopped transmitting during or before subframe n k 1 , k1∈ {0,1,         Lw − 2} , and if the
channel is sensed by the UE to be continuously idle after the UE has stopped transmitting, the UE may transmit in a
later subframe nk 2 , k 2 ∈ {1, L w − 1} using Type 2 channel access procedure. If the channel sensed by the UE is not
continuously idle after the UE has stopped transmitting, the UE may transmit in a later subframe nk 2 ,
k 2 ∈ {1, L w − 1} using Type 1 channel access procedure with the UL channel access priority class indicated in the
DCI corresponding to subframe nk 2 .

If the UE receives an UL grant and the DCI indicates a PUSCH transmission starting in subframe n using Type 1
channel access procedure, and if the UE has an ongoing Type 1 channel access procedure before subframe n .

   -   if the UL channel access priority class value p1 used for the ongoing Type 1 channel access procedure is same
       or larger than the UL channel access priority class value p2 indicated in the DCI, the UE may transmit the
       PUSCH transmission in response to the UL grant by accessing the carrier by using the ongoing Type 1 channel
       access procedure.

   -   if the UL channel access priority class value p1 used for the ongoing Type 1 channel access procedure is
       smaller than the UL channel access priority class value p2 indicated in the DCI, the UE shall terminate the
       ongoing channel access procedure.

If the UE



                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                      14                         ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


   -    is scheduled to transmit on a set of carriers C in subframe n , and if the UL grants scheduling PUSCH
        transmissions on the set of carriers C indicate Type 1 channel access procedure, and if the same 'PUSCH
        starting position' is indicated for all carriers in the set of carriers C , or

   -    intends to perform an autonomous uplink transmission on the set of carriers C in subframe n with Type 1
                                                    FS3
        channel access procedure, and if the same N Start is used for all carriers in the set of carriers C , and

if the carrier frequencies of set of carriers C is a subset of one of the sets of carrier frequencies defined in Clause 5.7.4
in [2]

   -    the UE may transmit on carrier ci ∈ C using Type 2 channel access procedure,

        -   if Type 2 channel access procedure is performed on carrier ci immediately before the UE transmission on
            carrier c j ∈ C , i ≠ j , and

        -   if the UE has accessed carrier c j using Type 1 channel access procedure,

            -   where carrier c j is selected by the UE uniformly randomly from the set of carriers C before performing
                Type 1 channel access procedure on any carrier in the set of carriers C .

If the UE is scheduled to transmit on carrier ci by a UL grant received on carrier c j , i ≠ j , and if the UE is
transmitting using autonomous UL on carrier ci , the UE shall terminate the ongoing PUSCH transmissions using the
autonomous UL at least one subframe before the UL transmission according to the received UL grant.

If the UE is scheduled by a UL grant received on a carrier to transmit a PUSCH transmission(s) starting from subframe
 n on the same carrier using Type 1 channel access procedure and if at least for the first scheduled subframe occupies
   UL
 N RB  resource blocks and the indicated 'PUSCH starting position is OFDM symbol zero, and if the UE starts
autonomous UL transmissions before subframe n using Type 1 channel access procedure on the same carrier, the UE
may transmit UL transmission(s) according to the received UL grant from subframe n without a gap, if the priority
class value of the performed channel access procedure is larger than or equal to priority class value indicated in the UL
grant, and the autonomous UL transmission in the subframe preceding subframe n shall end at the last OFDM symbol
of the subframe regardless of the higher layer parameter endingSymbolAUL. The sum of the lengths of the autonomous
UL transmission(s) and the scheduled UL transmission(s) shall not exceed the maximum channel occupancy time
corresponding to the priority class value used to perform the autonomous uplink channel access procedure. Otherwise,
the UE shall terminate the ongoing autonomous UL transmission at least one subframe before the start of the UL
transmission according to the received UL grant on the same carrier.

If subframe n occurs within the time interval starting at t0 and ending at t0 + TCO , where TCO = Tm cot, p + Tg , where

   -    t 0 is the time instant when the eNB has started transmission on the carrier according to the channel access
        procedure described in clause 4.1.1,

   -    Tm cot, p value is determined by the eNB as described in clause 4.1.1,

   -    Tg is the total duration of all gaps of duration greater than 25us that occur between the DL transmission of the
        eNB and UL transmissions scheduled by the eNB, and between any two UL transmissions scheduled by the eNB
        starting from t 0 ,

then,

   -    the eNB may indicate Type 2 channel access procedure in the DCI of an UL grant scheduling transmission(s)
        including PUSCH on a carrier in subframe n when the eNB has transmitted on the carrier according to the
        channel access procedure described in clause 4.1.1,




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                     15                         ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


   -   or the eNB may indicate using the 'UL duration and offset' field that the UE may perform a Type 2 channel
       access procedure for transmissions(s) including PUSCH on a carrier in subframe n when the eNB has
       transmitted on the carrier according to the channel access procedure described in clause 4.1.1,

   -   or the eNB may indicate using the 'UL duration and offset' field and 'COT sharing indication for AUL' field that
       a UE configured with autonomous UL may perform a Type 2 channel access procedure for autonomous UL
       transmissions(s) including PUSCH on a carrier in subframe n when the eNB has transmitted on the carrier
       according to the channel access procedure described in clause 4.1.1 and acquired the channel using the largest
       priority class value and the eNB transmission includes PDSCH,

   -   or the eNB may schedule transmissions including PUSCH on a carrier in subframe n , that follows a
       transmission by the eNB on that carrier after Tshort_ul = 25us .

The eNB shall schedule UL transmissions between t 0 and t0 + TCO in contiguous subframes if they can be scheduled
contiguously.

For an UL transmission on a carrier that follows a transmission by the eNB on that carrier after Tshort_ul = 25us , the UE
may use Type 2 channel access procedure for the UL transmission.

If the eNB indicates Type 2 channel access procedure for the UE in the DCI, the eNB indicates the channel access
priority class used to obtain access to the channel in the DCI.

4.2.1.1           Type 1 UL channel access procedure
The UE may transmit the transmission using Type 1 channel access procedure after first sensing the channel to be idle
during the slot durations of a defer duration Td ; and after the counter N is zero in step 4. The counter N is adjusted
by sensing the channel for additional slot duration(s) according to the steps described below.

   1) set N = N init , where N init is a random number uniformly distributed between 0 and CW p , and go to step 4;

   2) if N > 0 and the UE chooses to decrement the counter, set N = N − 1 ;

   3) sense the channel for an additional slot duration, and if the additional slot duration is idle, go to step 4; else, go to
      step 5;

   4) if N = 0 , stop; else, go to step 2.

   5) sense the channel until either a busy slot is detected within an additional defer duration Td or all the slots of the
       additional defer duration Td are detected to be idle;

   6) if the channel is sensed to be idle during all the slot durations of the additional defer duration Td , go to step 4;
       else, go to step 5;

If the UE has not transmitted a transmission including PUSCH or SRS on a carrier on which LAA Scell(s)
transmission(s) are performed after step 4 in the procedure above, the UE may transmit a transmission including
PUSCH or SRS on the carrier, if the channel is sensed to be idle at least in a slot duration Tsl when the UE is ready to
transmit the transmission including PUSCH or SRS, and if the channel has been sensed to be idle during all the slot
durations of a defer duration Td immediately before the transmission including PUSCH or SRS. If the channel has not
been sensed to be idle in a slot duration Tsl when the UE first senses the channel after it is ready to transmit, or if the
channel has not been sensed to be idle during any of the slot durations of a defer duration Td immediately before the
intended transmission including PUSCH or SRS, the UE proceeds to step 1 after sensing the channel to be idle during
the slot durations of a defer duration Td .




                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                         16                       ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


The defer duration Td consists of duration T f = 16us immediately followed by m p consecutive slot durations where
each slot duration is Tsl = 9us , and T f includes an idle slot duration Tsl at start of T f ;

A slot duration Tsl is considered to be idle if the UE senses the channel during the slot duration, and the power detected
by the UE for at least 4us within the slot duration is less than energy detection threshold X Thresh . Otherwise, the slot
duration Tsl is considered to be busy.

CWmin, p ≤ CW p ≤ CWmax, p is the contention window. CWp adjustment is described in clause 4.2.2.

CWmin, p and CWmax, p are chosen before step 1 of the procedure above.

m p , CWmin, p , and CWmax, p are based on channel access priority class signalled to the UE, as shown in Table 4.2.1-1.

X Thresh adjustment is described in clause 4.2.3.

4.2.1.2            Type 2 UL channel access procedure
If the UL UE uses Type 2 channel access procedure for a transmission including PUSCH, the UE may transmit the
transmission including PUSCH immediately after sensing the channel to be idle for at least a sensing interval
Tshort_ul = 25us . Tshort_ul consists of a duration T f = 16us immediately followed by one slot duration Tsl = 9us
and T f includes an idle slot duration Tsl at start of T f . The channel is considered to be idle for Tshort_ul if it is sensed
to be idle during the slot durations of Tshort_ul .


4.2.2          Contention window adjustment procedure
If the UE transmits transmissions using Type 1 channel access procedure that are associated with channel access
priority class p on a carrier, the UE maintains the contention window value CW p and adjusts CW p for those
transmissions before step 1 of the procedure described in clause 4.2.1.1, using the following procedure

   -   If the UE receives an UL grant or an AUL-DFI, the contention window size for all the priority classes is adjusted
       as following:

       -   If the NDI value for at least one HARQ process associated with HARQ_ID_ref is toggled, or if the HARQ-
           ACK value(s) for at least one of the HARQ processes associated with HARQ_ID_ref received in the earliest
           AUL-DFI after n ref +3 indicates ACK.

           -                                  {         }
               For every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 set CWp = CWmin, p

       -                                                                   {      }
           Otherwise, increase CW p for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 to the next higher allowed value;

   -   If there exist one or more previous transmissions { T0 , … , Tn } using Type 1 channel access procedure, from
       the start subframe(s) of the previous transmission(s) of which, N or more subframes have elapsed and neither UL
       grant nor AUL-DFI was received, where N = max (contentionWindowSizeTimer, Ti burst length+1) if
       contentionWindowSizeTimer > 0 and N = 0 otherwise, for each transmission Ti , CW p is adjusted as following:

       -                                                    {          }
           increase CW p for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 to the next higher allowed value;

       -   The CW p is adjusted once




                                                                ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                     17                     ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


   -   Else if the UE transmits transmissions using Type 1 channel access procedure before N subframes have elapsed
       from the start of previous UL transmission burst using Type 1 channel access procedure and neither UL grant
       nor AUL-DFI is received,

       -   the CW p is unchanged.

   -   If the UE receives an UL grant or an AUL-DFI indicates feedback for one or more previous transmissions { T0 ,
       … , Tn } using Type 1 channel access procedure, from the start subframe(s) of the previous transmission(s) of
       which, N or more subframes have elapsed and neither UL grant nor AUL-DFI was received, where N = max
       (contentionWindowSizeTimer, Ti burst length+1) if contentionWindowSizeTimer > 0 and N = 0 otherwise, the
       UE may recompute CW p as follows:

       -   The UE reverts CW p to the value used to transmit at nT 0 using Type 1 channel access procedure.

       -   The UE updates CW p sequentially in the order of the transmission { T0 , … , Tn }

           -   If the NDI value for at least one HARQ process associated with HARQ_ID_ref' is toggled, or if the
               HARQ-ACK value(s) for at least one of the HARQ processes associated with HARQ_ID_ref' received in
               the earliest AUL-DFI after nTi +3 indicates ACK.

               -                              {         }
                   For every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 set CWp = CWmin, p

           -                                                           {        }
               Otherwise, increase CW p for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 to the next higher allowed value

   -   If the UE transmits transmissions using Type 1 channel access procedure before N subframes have elapsed from
       the start of previous UL transmission burst using Type 1 channel access procedure and neither UL grant nor
       AUL-DFI is received,

       -   CW p is unchanged.

   HARQ_ID_ref is the HARQ process ID of UL-SCH in reference subframe n ref . The reference subframe n ref is
   determined as follows

   -   If the UE receives an UL grant or an AUL-DFI in subframe n g , subframe n w is the most recent subframe before
       subframe n g − 3 in which the UE has transmitted UL-SCH using Type 1 channel access procedure.

       -   If the UE transmits transmissions including UL-SCH without gaps starting with subframe n 0 and in
           subframes n0 , n1 , L , n w and the UL-SCH in subframe n 0 is not PUSCH Mode 1 that starts in the second
           slot of the subframe, reference subframe n ref is subframe n 0 ,

       -   If the UE transmits transmissions including PUSCH Mode 1 without gaps starting with second slot of
           subframe n 0 and in subframes n0 , n1 , L , n w and the, reference subframe n ref is subframe n0 and n1 ,

       -   otherwise, reference subframe n ref is subframe n w ,

   HARQ_ID_ref' is the HARQ process ID of UL-SCH in reference subframe nTi . The reference subframe nTi is
   determined as the start subframe of a transmission Ti using Type 1 channel access procedure and of which, N
   subframes have elapsed and neither UL grant nor AUL-DFI was received.

If the AUL-DFI with DCI format 0A is indicated to a UE that is activated with AUL transmission and transmission
mode 2 is configured for the UE for grant-based uplink transmissions, the spatial HARQ-ACK bundling shall be



                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                       18                        ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


performed by logical OR operation across multiple codewords for the HARQ process not configured for autonomous
UL transmission.

If CW p changes during an ongoing channel access procedure, the UE shall draw a counter N init and applies it to the
ongoing channel access procedure.

                                                                                 {            }
The UE may keep the value of CW p unchanged for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 , if the UE scheduled to
transmit transmissions without gaps including PUSCH in a set subframes n0 , n1 , L , nw−1 using Type 1 channel access
procedure, and if the UE is not able to transmit any transmission including PUSCH in the set of subframes.

                                                                     {          }
The UE may keep the value of CW p for every priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 the same as that for the last scheduled
transmission including PUSCH using Type 1 channel access procedure, if the reference subframe for the last scheduled
transmission is also n ref .

If CWp = CWmax, p , the next higher allowed value for adjusting CW p is CWmax, p .

If the CWp = CWmax, p is consecutively used K times for generation of N init , CW p is reset to CWmin, p only for
that priority class p for which CWp = CWmax, p is consecutively used K times for generation of N init . K is

                                                                                    {
selected by UE from the set of values {1, 2, …,8} for each priority class p ∈ 1, 2,3, 4 .     }

4.2.3          Energy detection threshold adaptation procedure
A UE accessing a carrier on which LAA Scell(s) transmission(s) are performed, shall set the energy detection threshold
( X Thresh ) to be less than or equal to the maximum energy detection threshold X Thresh_max .

X Thresh_max is determined as follows:

   -   If the UE is configured with higher layer parameter 'maxEnergyDetectionThreshold-r14',

       -    X Thresh_max is set equal to the value signalled by the higher layer parameter.

   -   otherwise

       -   the UE shall determine X 'Thresh_max according to the procedure described in clause 4.2.3.1

       -   if the UE is configured with higher layer parameter 'energyDetectionThresholdOffset-r14'

           -    X Thresh_max is set by adjusting X 'Thresh_max according to the offset value signalled by the higher layer
               parameter

       -   otherwise

           -   The UE shall set X Thresh_max = X 'Thresh_max


4.2.3.1            Default maximum energy detection threshold computation procedure
If the higher layer parameter 'absenceOfAnyOtherTechnology-r14' indicates TRUE:

                            T + 10dB,
   -    X 'Thresh_max = min  max      where
                            X r      




                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                      19                 ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)


        -    X r is Maximum energy detection threshold defined by regulatory requirements in dBm when such
            requirements are defined, otherwise X r = Tmax + 10 dB

otherwise

                             − 72 + 10 ⋅ log 10( BWMHz / 20 MHz ) dBm,              
                                                                                    
   -    X 'Thres _ max = max     Tmax ,                                          
                             min T − T + (P + 10 ⋅ log 10( BWMHz / 20 MHz )− P )
                                  max      A     H                            TX  


Where

   -    TA = 10dB

   -    PH = 23 dBm;

   -    PTX is the set to the value of PCMAX_H,c as defined in [3].

   -    Tmax (dBm) = 10 ⋅ log10 ( 3.16228 ⋅ 10−8 (mW / MHz ) ⋅ BWMHz ( MHz ) ) ;

        -   BWMHz is the single carrier bandwidth in MHz.




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15                  20                          ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)



Annex X (informative):
Change history

                                                   Change history
Date        Meeting   TDoc         CR   Rev Cat    Subject/Comment                                                 New
                                                                                                                   version
  2018-04   RAN1#92   R1-1804453                   First version                                                     0.0.1
              bis
  2018-04   RAN1#92   R1-1805351                   Removal of FeLAA agreements                                      0.0.2
              bis
  2018-04   RAN1#92   R1-1805352                   Addition of FeLAA agreements                                     0.0.3
              bis
  2018-04   RAN1#92   R1-1805416                   First endorsed version                                           0.1.0
              bis
  2018-05   RAN1#92   R1-1805788                   Correction to FeLAA agreements and alignment with other          0.1.1
              bis                                  specifications
  2018-05   RAN1#92   R1-1805790                   Second endorsed version                                          0.2.0
              bis
  2018-05   RAN1#93   R1-1807911                   Update based on agreements at RAN1 #93                            0.2.1
  2018-06   RAN1#93   R1-1807932                   Endorsed version                                                  1.0.0
  2018-06   RAN#80                                 Spec under change control further to RAN approval decision       15.0.0
  2018-09   RAN#81    RP-181795 0001       1   F   Correction on RRC parameters for FeLAA in 37.213                 15.1.0
  2018-09   RAN#81    RP-181795 0002       -   F   Correction on starting position of Partial PUSCH Mode 1 for      15.1.0
                                                   FeLAA in 37.213
  2018-09    RAN#81 RP-181795 0003         -   F   Correction on COT length for AUL transmission                    15.1.0
  2019-03    RAN#83 RP-190444 0004         -   F   Corrections on channel access procedures in 37.213               15.2.0
  2020-03   RAN#87-e RP-200200 0006        -   F   Correction on conditions for indicating Type 2 channel access    15.3.0
                                                   procedure




                                                         ETSI
3GPP TS 37.213 version 15.3.0 Release 15             21          ETSI TS 137 213 V15.3.0 (2020-04)



History
                                              Document history
 V15.0.0       July 2018        Publication

 V15.1.0       October 2018     Publication

 V15.2.0       April 2019       Publication

 V15.3.0       April 2020       Publication




                                                    ETSI
