---
source: specs-pdf/ts_38_307_v1511.pdf
spec: ts_38_307_v1511
converted: 2026-06-30T10:22:07Z
---

# ts_38_307_v1511

     ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)




TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION




                             5G;
                             NR;
          Requirements on User Equipments (UEs)
      supporting a release-independent frequency band
        (3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15)
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                       1                             ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)




                                                            Reference
                                                    RTS/TSGR-0438307vfb0

                                                            Keywords
                                                                 5G




                                                               ETSI
                                                  650 Route des Lucioles
                                         F-06921 Sophia Antipolis Cedex - FRANCE

                                       Tel.: +33 4 92 94 42 00 Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16

                                              Siret N° 348 623 562 00017 - APE 7112B
                                            Association à but non lucratif enregistrée à la
                                           Sous-Préfecture de Grasse (06) N° w061004871



                                                       Important notice
                                       The present document can be downloaded from:
                                            https://www.etsi.org/standards-search
 The present document may be made available in electronic versions and/or in print. The content of any electronic and/or
 print versions of the present document shall not be modified without the prior written authorization of ETSI. In case of any
    existing or perceived difference in contents between such versions and/or in print, the prevailing version of an ETSI
                     deliverable is the one made publicly available in PDF format at www.etsi.org/deliver.
    Users of the present document should be aware that the document may be subject to revision or change of status.
                    Information on the current status of this and other ETSI documents is available at
                                    https://portal.etsi.org/TB/ETSIDeliverableStatus.aspx
          If you find errors in the present document, please send your comment to one of the following services:
                                  https://portal.etsi.org/People/CommiteeSupportStaff.aspx
                   If you find a security vulnerability in the present document, please report it through our
                                         Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure Program:
                            https://www.etsi.org/standards/coordinated-vulnerability-disclosure

                                       Notice of disclaimer & limitation of liability
The information provided in the present deliverable is directed solely to professionals who have the appropriate degree of
         experience to understand and interpret its content in accordance with generally accepted engineering or
                                  other professional standard and applicable regulations.
                No recommendation as to products and services or vendors is made or should be implied.
  No representation or warranty is made that this deliverable is technically accurate or sufficient or conforms to any law
and/or governmental rule and/or regulation and further, no representation or warranty is made of merchantability or fitness
                     for any particular purpose or against infringement of intellectual property rights.
        In no event shall ETSI be held liable for loss of profits or any other incidental or consequential damages.

   Any software contained in this deliverable is provided "AS IS" with no warranties, express or implied, including but not
 limited to, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement of intellectual property
 rights and ETSI shall not be held liable in any event for any damages whatsoever (including, without limitation, damages
for loss of profits, business interruption, loss of information, or any other pecuniary loss) arising out of or related to the use
                                                 of or inability to use the software.

                                                   Copyright Notification
No part may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and
                             microfilm except as authorized by written permission of ETSI.
             The content of the PDF version shall not be modified without the written authorization of ETSI.
                    The copyright and the foregoing restriction extend to reproduction in all media.

                                                          © ETSI 2023.
                                                       All rights reserved.



                                                              ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                  2                       ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



Intellectual Property Rights
Essential patents

IPRs essential or potentially essential to normative deliverables may have been declared to ETSI. The declarations
pertaining to these essential IPRs, if any, are publicly available for ETSI members and non-members, and can be
found in ETSI SR 000 314: "Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs); Essential, or potentially Essential, IPRs notified to
ETSI in respect of ETSI standards", which is available from the ETSI Secretariat. Latest updates are available on the
ETSI Web server (https://ipr.etsi.org/).

Pursuant to the ETSI Directives including the ETSI IPR Policy, no investigation regarding the essentiality of IPRs,
including IPR searches, has been carried out by ETSI. No guarantee can be given as to the existence of other IPRs not
referenced in ETSI SR 000 314 (or the updates on the ETSI Web server) which are, or may be, or may become,
essential to the present document.

Trademarks

The present document may include trademarks and/or tradenames which are asserted and/or registered by their owners.
ETSI claims no ownership of these except for any which are indicated as being the property of ETSI, and conveys no
right to use or reproduce any trademark and/or tradename. Mention of those trademarks in the present document does
not constitute an endorsement by ETSI of products, services or organizations associated with those trademarks.

DECT™, PLUGTESTS™, UMTS™ and the ETSI logo are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its
Members. 3GPP™ and LTE™ are trademarks of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the 3GPP
Organizational Partners. oneM2M™ logo is a trademark of ETSI registered for the benefit of its Members and of the
oneM2M Partners. GSM® and the GSM logo are trademarks registered and owned by the GSM Association.



Legal Notice
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by ETSI 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The present document may refer to technical specifications or reports using their 3GPP identities. These shall be
interpreted as being references to the corresponding ETSI deliverables.

The cross reference between 3GPP and ETSI identities can be found under https://webapp.etsi.org/key/queryform.asp.



Modal verbs terminology
In the present document "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "may", "need not", "will", "will not", "can" and
"cannot" are to be interpreted as described in clause 3.2 of the ETSI Drafting Rules (Verbal forms for the expression of
provisions).

"must" and "must not" are NOT allowed in ETSI deliverables except when used in direct citation.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                                               3                                    ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



Contents
Intellectual Property Rights ................................................................................................................................2
Legal Notice .......................................................................................................................................................2
Modal verbs terminology....................................................................................................................................2
Foreword.............................................................................................................................................................4
1         Scope ........................................................................................................................................................6
2         References ................................................................................................................................................6
3         Definitions, symbols and abbreviations ...................................................................................................6
3.1           Definitions .......................................................................................................................................................... 6
3.2           Symbols .............................................................................................................................................................. 7
3.3           Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................................................... 7
4         General .....................................................................................................................................................7
5         Release independent features for NR frequency range 1 .........................................................................8
5.1           Additional NR operating bands and UE power classes for NR frequency range 1 ............................................ 8
5.2           Additional NR CA configurations for NR frequency range 1 ............................................................................ 8
5.2.1            Intra-band CA ............................................................................................................................................... 8
5.2.2            Inter-band CA ............................................................................................................................................... 9
5.3           Additional NR SUL configurations for NR frequency range 1 .......................................................................... 9
5.4           Other release independent features for NR frequency range 1 ......................................................................... 10
5.5           Other release independent requirements for NR frequency range 1 ................................................................. 10
6         Release independent features for NR frequency range 2 .......................................................................11
6.1           Additional NR operating bands and UE power classes for NR frequency range 2 .......................................... 11
6.2           Additional NR CA configurations for NR frequency range 2 .......................................................................... 11
6.2.1           Intra-band CA ............................................................................................................................................. 11
7         Release independent features for NR interworking between NR frequency range 1 and NR
          frequency range 2 ...................................................................................................................................12
7.1           Additional NR inter-band CA configurations between frequency range 1 and frequency range 2 .................. 12
7.2           Additional Inter-band NR-DC configurations between frequency range 1 and frequency range 2 .................. 13
8         Release independent features for NR interworking between NR and E-UTRA ....................................14
8.1           Additional EN-DC configurations .................................................................................................................... 14
8.1.1           Intra-band EN-DC ...................................................................................................................................... 14
8.1.2           Inter-band EN-DC ...................................................................................................................................... 14
8.1.2.1              Inter-band EN-DC within frequency range 1 ........................................................................................ 14
8.1.2.2              Inter-band EN-DC including frequency range 2 ................................................................................... 15
8.1.2.3              Inter-band EN-DC including frequency range 1 and frequency range 2 ............................................... 16

Annex A (informative):                           Frequency arrangement for overlapping operating bands ........................17
Annex B (informative):                           Change history ...............................................................................................18
History ..............................................................................................................................................................19




                                                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                     4                      ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP).

The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the TSG and may change following formal
TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:

   Version x.y.z

   where:

       x the first digit:

            1 presented to TSG for information;

            2 presented to TSG for approval;

            3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.

       y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical enhancements, corrections,
         updates, etc.

       z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been incorporated in the document.

In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:

   shall             indicates a mandatory requirement to do something

   shall not         indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something

The constructions "shall" and "shall not" are confined to the context of normative provisions, and do not appear in
Technical Reports.

The constructions "must" and "must not" are not used as substitutes for "shall" and "shall not". Their use is avoided
insofar as possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an external, referenced,
non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.

   should            indicates a recommendation to do something

   should not        indicates a recommendation not to do something

   may               indicates permission to do something

   need not          indicates permission not to do something

The construction "may not" is ambiguous and is not used in normative elements. The unambiguous constructions
"might not" or "shall not" are used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.

   can               indicates that something is possible

   cannot            indicates that something is impossible

The constructions "can" and "cannot" are not substitutes for "may" and "need not".

   will              indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result of action taken by an agency
                     the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the present document

   will not          indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as a result of action taken by an
                     agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the present document

   might             indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of action taken by some agency the
                     behaviour of which is outside the scope of the present document




                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                   5                       ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


   might not         indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a result of action taken by some agency
                     the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the present document

In addition:

   is                (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of fact

   is not            (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of fact

The constructions "is" and "is not" do not indicate requirements.




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                      6                       ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



1                Scope
The present document specifies requirements for Rel-15 UEs supporting release independent features like:

    -     additional NR operating bands and power classes on top of Rel-15 of TS 38.101 [2-5] and TS 38.133 [6];



2                References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this text, constitute provisions of the present
document.

    -     References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or
          non-specific.

    -     For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.

    -     For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including
          a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
          Release as the present document.

    [1]                 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".

    [2]                 3GPP TS 38.101-1: NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 1: Range 1
                        Standalone

    [3]                 3GPP TS 38.101-2: NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 2: Range 2
                        Standalone

    [4]                 3GPP TS 38.101-3: NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1
                        and Range 2 Interworking operation with other radios

    [5]                 3GPP TS 38.101-4: NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception; Part 4: UE
                        performance requirements

    [6]                 3GPP TS 38.133: NR; Requirements for support of radio resource management

    [7]                 3GPP TS 38.306: NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities




3                Definitions, symbols and abbreviations

3.1              Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A
term defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].

release independent: applicable to some frozen releases, starting from a certain release Rel-M

    NOTE 1: Normally, a feature is introduced only in the latest open release Rel-N and future releases are based on the
            previous one so that future releases inherit the requirements of this feature. Introducing a feature "in a
            release independent way from Rel-M onwards" (M<N) means it was decided by TSG RAN that this
            feature would be also beneficial in previous, already frozen releases starting with Rel-M until Rel-(N-1).
            In order to avoid touching TS 38.101 [2-5] or TS 38.133 [6] of these frozen releases, the corresponding
            requirements are captured in TS 38.307 via pointers to [2-5] or [6] of the release in which the feature was
            introduced.

    NOTE 2: Release independent does not mean applicable to all releases.




                                                             ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                    7                       ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


3.2            Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:

    N                 Release in which a feature is introduced into TS 38.101 [2-5] or TS 38.133 [6]
    M                 Release from which onwards (including release M) a feature is release independent


3.3            Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in
TR 21.905 [1].

    BW                Bandwidth
    CA                Carrier Aggregation
    CC                Component carrier
    DL                Downlink
    EN-DC             Dual connectivity between E-UTRA and NR
    FDD               Frequency Division Duplex
    FR1               Frequency range 1
    FR2               Frequency range 2
    NR                New radio
    PMI               Precoding Matrix Indicator
    REL               Release
    SDL               Supplementary downlink
    SUL               Supplementary uplink
    TDD               Time Division Duplex
    UE                User Equipment
    UL                Uplink



4              General
TSG-RAN has agreed for certain features (see the following clauses) to introduce them in a "release independent way".

This means for each feature:

    -   it is "introduced" in a release N, i.e. TS 38.101 [2-5] and TS 38.133 [6] of release N define certain UE
        requirements for this feature; the feature is indicated in the tables of the following clauses;

    -   it is "release independent" starting from a release M (M<N); M for the given feature is provided in the tables of
        the following clauses;

    -   UEs supporting this feature have to fulfil additional requirements in release M or higher which are specified in
        one or more Annexes of TS 38.307 of release N; the applicable Annexes for a given feature are provided in the
        tables of the following clauses.

The applicable UE Categories are specified in TS 38.306 [7] according to the release to which the UE conforms.

In the table of release independent features in subsequent clauses, "FDD, TDD" refers to CA or EN-DC configuration
composed by only FDD bands or only TDD bands, respectively. "FDD and TDD" refers to CA or EN-DC configuration
including both FDD and TDD bands. "SDL and FDD, SDL and TDD" refers to CA configuration including both SDL
and FDD bands or both SDL and TDD bands, respectively. "TDD and SUL" refers to SUL configuration including
both TDD and SUL bands. "FDD and TDD and SUL" refers to EN-DC configuration including both FDD, TDD and
SUL bands. Unless stated otherwise, the release independent for the band combinations are from Rel-15.

When a new feature is introduced only the latest release of release independent spec needs to be updated. The latest
release of release independent spec refers to the release which the new feature is introduced in. If an RF feature
introduced in the same release as the release which the feature is independent from, (i.e. M=N), the common UE RF
requirements table in annex B.4 is specified from release N+1, otherwise the common UE RF requirements table is
specified from release N.



                                                           ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15               8                     ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)




5             Release independent features for NR frequency
              range 1

5.1           Additional NR operating bands and UE power classes for
              NR frequency range 1
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional NR operating bands power classes and UE channel bandwidth compared
to TS 38.101-1 of Rel-15 [2] are introduced via this clause.

                                      Table 5.1-1: NR operating bands
                                                                                          Requirements to be
                                                                          Release               fulfilled
                       Feature                         Duplex-mode      independe        (see TS 38.307 of the
                                                                          nt from     release in which the band
                                                                                           was introduced)
                                                      FDD, TDD, SDL,
    Operating bands                                                       Rel-15
                                                           SUL


                                       Table 5.1-2: NR UE power class
                                                                                           Requirements to be
                                                                          Release               fulfilled
                       Feature                         Duplex-mode      independe         (see TS 38.307 of the
                                                                          nt from     release in which the power
                                                                                         class was introduced)
    Power Class 1                                            FDD          Rel-15
    Power Class 2                                            TDD          Rel-15
    Power Class 3                                     FDD, TDD, SUL       Rel-15



                                   Table 5.1-3: NR UE channel bandwidth
                                                                                         Requirements to be
                                                                                               fulfilled
                                                                          Release
                                                                                        (see TS 38.307 of the
                       Feature                         Duplex-mode      independe
                                                                                       release in which the UE
                                                                          nt from
                                                                                       channel bandwidth was
                                                                                             introduced)
                                                      FDD, TDD, SUL,
    UE channel bandwidth                                                  Rel-15
                                                           SDL




5.2           Additional NR CA configurations for NR frequency range 1
5.2.1         Intra-band CA
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional NR intraband CA configurations within FR1 compared to TS 38.101-1 of
Rel-15 [2] are introduced via this clause.




                                                      ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                  9                        ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


                                   Table 5.2.1-1: NR intra-band CA within FR1
                                                                                                    requirements to be
                                                                                                          fulfilled
                                                                                     Release
                                                                       Duplex-                       (see 38.307 of the
          Feature           DL/UL           CA BW Class                            independent
                                                                        mode                         REL in which the
                                                                                       from
                                                                                                     CA configuration
                                                                                                      was introduced)
   Intra-band contiguous     DL        C, D, E, G, H, I, J, K, L         TDD         Rel-15
     CA configurations
         within FR1          UL                   A                      TDD         Rel-15



5.2.2        Inter-band CA
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional NR inter-band CA configurations within FR1 compared to TS 38.101-1 of
Rel-15 [2] are introduced via this clause.

                                   Table 5.2.2-1: NR inter-band CA within FR1
                                                                                                      requirements
                                                                                                      to be fulfilled
                                                                                                       (see 38.307
                                    Maximum                                             Release
                                                 number        CA BW      Duplex-                     of the REL in
         Feature           DL/UL     number                                           independent
                                                 of CCs        Classes     mode                       which the CA
                                    of bands                                              from
                                                                                                      configuration
                                                                                                           was
                                                                                                       introduced)
                                                                           TDD,
                                                                         FDD, SDL
      Inter-band CA         DL          2             2            A     and FDD,        Rel-15
   configurations within                                                  SDL and
         NR FR1                                                             TDD
                                                                         TDD, FDD
                            UL          2             2            A                     Rel-15
                                                                          and TDD




5.3          Additional NR SUL configurations for NR frequency range 1
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional NR SUL configurations within FR1 compared to TS 38.101-1 of Rel-15
[2] are introduced via this clause.

                                        Table 5.3-1: NR SUL within FR1

                                                                                                     requirements
                                                                                                     to be fulfilled
                                                                                                      (see 38.307
                                     number                                            Release       of the REL in
                                               number      CA BW         Duplex-
         Feature           DL/UL        of                                           independent       which the
                                               of CCs      Classes        mode
                                      bands                                              from             SUL
                                                                                                     configuration
                                                                                                          was
                                                                                                      introduced)
     Inter-band SUL         DL         1           1             A         TDD          Rel-15
   configurations within
         NR FR1                                                          TDD and
                            UL         2           2             A                      Rel-15
                                                                           SUL




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                10                      ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


5.4          Other release independent features for NR frequency range
             1
This clause covers requirements for a Rel-15 UE coming from all other release independent features that are not
covered under clause 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3, e.g. generic baseband requirements or requirements that are not band/CA/SUL
configuration specific.

                Table 5.4-1: Additional requirements of other release independent features
                                       Requirements to be                        Further information
                         Release       fulfilled
      Feature          independent     (see 38.307 of the REL
                           from        when the feature was
                                       introduced)
 RRM requirements       Rel-15 (NOTE   Table C.1-1               Rel-16 WI NR_HST introduced band
 for high speed train         1)                                 independent RRM requirements: see Table C.1-1
 scenario
 UE demodulation        Rel-15 (NOTE Table C.2-1                 Rel-16 WI NR_HST introduced band
 requirements for             1)                                 independent UE demodulation requirements: see
 high speed train                                                Table C.2-1
 scenario
 RF requirements            Rel-15
 for 4Rx UEs
 NOTE 1: Rel-15 UEs supporting the high speed train are assumed to read the Rel-16 high speed train scenario
            information, which is broadcast to all UEs.

5.5          Other release independent requirements for NR frequency
             range 1
This clause covers requirements for a Rel-15 UE coming from all other release independent requirements with the
corresponding features introduced in Rel-15.

Table 5.5-1: Release independent requirements with the corresponding features introduced in Rel-15
                                       Requirements to be                        Further information
                         Release       fulfilled
      Feature          independent     (see 38.307 of the REL
                           from        when the feature was
                                       introduced)
 Precoding matrix         Rel-15       Table D.1-1, Table D.2-1     Rel-16 NR_perf_enh-Perf WI introduced band
 indicator (PMI)                                                    independent PMI reporting requirements for
 reporting                                                          16TX and 32TX TypeI-SinglePanel Codebook,
 requirements for                                                   and 16TX TypeII Codebook.
 TypeI-SinglePanel
 and TypeII
 Codebooks with
 more than 8TX and
 up to 32TX
 PDSCH                    Rel-15       Table E.1-1                  Rel-16 NR_perf_enh-Perf WI introduced band
 demoulation                                                        independent PDSCH demodulation requirements
 requirements with                                                  with LTE CRS rate matching for TDD band.
 LTE CRS rate
 matching for TDD
 band




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15               11                    ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



6              Release independent features for NR frequency
               range 2

6.1            Additional NR operating bands and UE power classes for
               NR frequency range 2
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional NR operating bands power classes and UE channel bandwidth compared
to TS 38.101-2 of Rel-15 [3] are introduced via this clause.

                                         Table 6.1-1: NR operating bands
                                                                                           Requirements to be
                                                                        Release                  fulfilled
                                                         Duplex-
                             Feature                                  independent         (see TS 38.307 of the
                                                          mode
                                                                          from         release in which the band
                                                                                            was introduced)
    Operating bands                                          TDD         Rel-15



                                          Table 6.1-2: NR UE power class
                                                                                           Requirements to be
                                                                        Release                  fulfilled
                                                         Duplex-
                             Feature                                  independent         (see TS 38.307 of the
                                                          mode
                                                                          from         release in which the band
                                                                                            was introduced)
    Power Class 1, 2, 3, 4                                   TDD         Rel-15



                                       Table 6.1-3: NR UE channel bandwidth

                                                                                          Requirements to be
                                                                                                fulfilled
                                                                        Release
                                                         Duplex-                         (see TS 38.307 of the
                             Feature                                  independent
                                                          mode                          release in which the UE
                                                                          from
                                                                                        channel bandwidth was
                                                                                              introduced)
    UE channel bandwidth                                     TDD         Rel-15




6.2            Additional NR CA configurations for NR frequency range 2
6.2.1          Intra-band CA
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional NR intra-band CA configurations within FR2 compared to TS 38.101-2 of
Rel-15 [3] are introduced via this clause.




                                                       ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                    12                     ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


                              Table 6.2.1-1: NR intra-band contiguous CA within FR2
                                                                                                  requirements to be
                                                                                                        fulfilled
                                                                                      Release
                                                                          Duplex-                  (see 38.307 of the
          Feature              DL/UL             CA BW Class                        independent
                                                                           mode                    REL in which the
                                                                                        from
                                                                                                   CA configuration
                                                                                                    was introduced)
                                       B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L,
    Intra-band contiguous       DL                                         TDD        Rel-15
                                                M, O, P, Q
      CA configurations
                                        B, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L,
          within FR2            UL                                         TDD        Rel-15
                                                M, O, P, Q


                            Table 6.2.1-2: NR non-contiguous intra-band CA within FR2
                                                                                                  requirements to be
                                                         maximum                                        fulfilled
                                                                                      Release
                                       number of         number of        Duplex-                  (see 38.307 of the
          Feature              DL/UL                                                independent
                                       sub-blocks       CCs within         mode                    REL in which the
                                                                                        from
                                                        a sub-block                                CA configuration
                                                                                                    was introduced)
      Intra-band non-                        2                 4           TDD        Rel-15
       contiguous CA
                                DL           3                 1           TDD        Rel-15
    configurations within
            FR2                              4                 1           TDD        Rel-15




7            Release independent features for NR interworking
             between NR frequency range 1 and NR frequency
             range 2

7.1          Additional NR inter-band CA configurations between
             frequency range 1 and frequency range 2
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional NR inter-band CA configurations between FR1 and FR2 compared to TS
38.101-3 of Rel-15 [4] are introduced via this clause.




                                                            ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                   13                             ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


                           Table 7.1-1: NR inter-band CA between FR1 and FR2
                                                                                                                     require
                                                                                                                      ments
                                                                                                                        to be
                                                                                                                     fulfilled
                                                                                                                         (see
                                                                      maxi
                                                                                                                      38.307
                                                                      mum
                                                                                                          Release      of the
                                           DL/     number             num       CA BW          Duplex
                Feature                                                                                  independ     REL in
                                           UL      of bands           ber       Classes        -mode
                                                                                                          ent from     which
                                                                       of
                                                                                                                      the CA
                                                                      CCs
                                                                                                                     configu
                                                                                                                       ration
                                                                                                                         was
                                                                                                                     introdu
                                                                                                                         ced)
                                           DL                                                  FDD,
                                                        1               2         A, C                    Rel-15
                                          FR1                                                  TDD
                                          DL                                    A, D, E,
                                                        1               4                       TDD       Rel-15
   Inter-band CA configurations for NR    FR2                                      F
   interworking between FR1 and FR2       UL                                                   FDD,
                                                        1               1           A                     Rel-15
                                          FR1                                                  TDD
                                          UL
                                                        1               1           A           TDD       Rel-15
                                          FR2




7.2          Additional Inter-band NR-DC configurations between
             frequency range 1 and frequency range 2
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional Inter-band NR-DC configurations between FR1 and FR2 compared to TS
38.101-3 of Rel-15 [4] are introduced via this clause.

                           Table 7.2-1: Inter-band NR-DC between FR1 and FR2
                                                                                                                     require
                                                                                                                      ments
                                                                                                                       to be
                                                                                                                      fulfille
                                                                                                                          d
                                                                 maxi                                                   (see
                                                                 mum                                                 38.307
                                                                                                          Release
                                         DL/     number          num           CA BW            Duplex                of the
               Feature                                                                                   independ
                                         UL      of bands        ber           Classes          -mode                REL in
                                                                                                          ent from
                                                                  of                                                  which
                                                                 CCs                                                 the CA
                                                                                                                      config
                                                                                                                     uration
                                                                                                                        was
                                                                                                                      introd
                                                                                                                      uced)
                                         DL
                                         FR         1             2              A, C            TDD       Rel-15
                                          1
                                         DL
                                                                            A, D, E, F, G,
                                         FR         1             8                              TDD       Rel-15
                                                                            H, I, J, K, L, M
  Inter-band DC configurations for NR     2
  interworking between FR1 and FR2       UL
                                         FR         1             1                A             TDD       Rel-15
                                          1
                                         UL
                                         FR         1             1                A             TDD       Rel-15
                                          2




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                   14                         ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



8             Release independent features for NR interworking
              between NR and E-UTRA

8.1           Additional EN-DC configurations
8.1.1         Intra-band EN-DC
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional EN-DC intra-band configurations within FR1 compared to TS 38.101-3 of
Rel-15 [4] are introduced via this clause.

                               Table 8.1.1-0: EN-DC intra-band UE power class
                                                                                                   Requirements to be
                                                                                  Release                fulfilled
                         Feature                            Duplex-mode         independe         (see TS 38.307 of the
                                                                                  nt from      release in which the band
                                                                                                    was introduced)
    Intra-band contiguous EN-DC power class 2                        TDD         Rel-15
    Intra-band contiguous EN-DC power class 3                FDD, TDD            Rel-15
    Intra-band non-contiguous EN-DC power class 2                    TDD         Rel-15
    Intra-band non-contiguous EN-DC power class 3            FDD, TDD            Rel-15



                     Table 8.1.1-1: EN-DC contiguous intra-band configurations within FR1
                                                                                                        requirements to
                                           maximum                                                         be fulfilled
                                                        maximum
                                            number                                         Release       (see 38.307 of
                                                         number            Duplex-
            Feature                DL/UL     of E-                                       independent       the REL in
                                                          of NR             mode
                                             UTRA                                            from        which the CA
                                                           CCs
                                              CCs                                                        configuration
                                                                                                        was introduced)
                                    DL          3                1         FDD, TDD        Rel-15
 Intra-band contiguous EN-DC
                                    UL          1                1         FDD, TDD        Rel-15


                  Table 8.1.1-2: EN-DC non-contiguous intra-band configurations within FR1

                                                                                                            requirements
                                                                                                             to be fulfilled
                                                maximum                                                     (see 38.307 of
                                maximum                      maximum                          Release
                                                number of                      Duplex-                         the REL in
        Feature        DL/UL   number of                     number of                      independent
                                                 E-UTRA                         mode                        which the CA
                               sub-blocks                     NR CCs                            from
                                                   CCs                                                      configuration
                                                                                                                  was
                                                                                                              introduced)
                                                                                FDD,
                         DL          2              3                 1                        Rel-15
    Intra-band EN-                                                              TDD
          DC                                                                    FDD,
                         UL          2              1                 1                        Rel-15
                                                                                TDD



8.1.2         Inter-band EN-DC

8.1.2.1            Inter-band EN-DC within frequency range 1
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional EN-DC interband configurations within FR1 compared to TS 38.101-3 of
Rel-15 [4] are introduced via this clause.




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                  15                        ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


                                Table 8.1.2.1-0: EN-DC inter-band UE power class
                                                                                                 Requirements to be
                                                                               Release                 fulfilled
                        Feature                            Duplex-mode       independe          (see TS 38.307 of the
                                                                               nt from       release in which the band
                                                                                                  was introduced)
  Inter-band EN-DC Power Class 2                               TDD             Rel-15
                                                          FDD, TDD, FDD                              Table B.4.6-1
  Inter-band EN-DC Power Class 3                                               Rel-15
                                                            and TDD


                  Table 8.1.2.1-1: EN-DC inter-band configurations without SUL within FR1

                                                                                                           requirements
                       maximu                                                                               to be fulfilled
                                                 maximu
                          m         maximum                      maximum                       Release     (see 38.307 of
                                                    m
                       number       number of                     number                       indepen        the REL in
 Feature    DL/UL                                number                      Duplex-mode
                         of E-       E-UTRA                        of NR                         dent      which the CA
                                                  of NR
                        UTRA           CCs                          CCs                          from      configuration
                                                  bands
                        bands                                                                                    was
                                                                                                             introduced)
                                                                              FDD, TDD,
  Inter-     DL             4            5            2               2                         Rel-15
                                                                             FDD and TDD
band EN-
                                                                              FDD, TDD,
   DC        UL             1            2            1               1                         Rel-15
                                                                             FDD and TDD


                   Table 8.1.2.1-2: EN-DC inter-band configurations with SUL within FR1
                                                                                                           requirements
                       maximu                                                                               to be fulfilled
                                                 maximu
                          m         maximum                      maximum                       Release     (see 38.307 of
                                                    m
                       number       number of                     number                       indepen        the REL in
 Feature    DL/UL                                number                      Duplex-mode
                         of E-       E-UTRA                        of NR                         dent      which the CA
                                                  of NR
                        UTRA           CCs                          CCs                          from      configuration
                                                  bands
                        bands                                                                                    was
                                                                                                             introduced)
                                                                              FDD, TDD,
             DL             2            3            1               1                         Rel-15
                                                                             FDD and TDD
  Inter-
                                                                              FDD, TDD,
band EN-
                                                                             FDD and TDD,
   DC        UL             1            1            2               2                         Rel-15
                                                                             FDD and TDD
                                                                               and SUL



8.1.2.2           Inter-band EN-DC including frequency range 2
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional EN-DC inter-band configurations including FR2 compared to TS 38.101-3
of Rel-15 [4] are introduced via this clause.

                      Table 8.1.2.2-1: EN-DC inter-band configurations including FR2
                                                                                                         requirements
                                                                                                          to be fulfilled
                     number       maximum                  maximum                                       (see 38.307 of
                                                number                                    Release
                       of E-      number of                 number         Duplex-                          the REL in
 Feature   DL/UL                                 of NR                                  independent
                      UTRA         E-UTRA                    of NR          mode                         which the CA
                                                 bands                                      from
                      bands          CCs                      CCs                                        configuration
                                                                                                               was
                                                                                                           introduced)
                                                                           TDD, FDD
  Inter-     DL         4            5            1               8                         Rel-15
                                                                            and TDD
  band
                                                                           TDD, FDD
 EN-DC       UL         1            2            1               8                         Rel-15
                                                                            and TDD




                                                          ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15              16                    ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)


8.1.2.3         Inter-band EN-DC including frequency range 1 and frequency range 2
Requirements for a Rel-15 UE for additional EN-DC inter-band configurations including FR1 and FR2 compared to TS
38.101-3 of Rel-15 [4] are introduced via this clause.

                Table 8.1.2.3-1: EN-DC inter-band configurations including FR1 and FR2
                                                                                                   requirements
                                                                                                   to be fulfilled
                                                                                          Releas
                       maximum      maximum       maximum      maximum                              (see 38.307
                                                                                             e
                       number of    number of     number of    number of     Duplex-               of the REL in
 Feature     DL/UL                                                                        indepe
                        E-UTRA       E-UTRA          NR           NR          mode                 which the CA
                                                                                           ndent
                         bands         CCs          bands        CCs                               configuration
                                                                                           from
                                                                                                        was
                                                                                                    introduced)
             DL FR1                                   1             2       TDD, FDD      Rel-15
  Inter-                    4            4
             DL FR2                                   1             4         TDD         Rel-15
band EN-
   DC        UL FR1                                   1             1       FDD, TDD      Rel-15
                            1            1
             UL FR2                                   1             1         TDD,        Rel-15




                                                     ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                 17                     ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



Annex A (informative):
Frequency arrangement for overlapping operating bands
The following information is provided in order to assist a UE derive the DL NR-ARFCN and UL NR-ARFCN in a
multi-band environment, in which multiple overlapping operating bands may be indicated in the fields
freqBandIndicatorNR and MultiFrequencyBandListNR-SIB.

The overlapping bands, independent of release, which may be indicated in a cell are shown in Table A-1 for applicable
NR operating bands. The DL NR-ARFCN and UL NR-ARFCN are derived according to TS 38.101-1 Rel-15.

               Table A-1: Overlapping bands (multi-band environments) for each NR band

                           NR               Overlapping NR operating
                                                                                Duplex Mode
                     Operating Band                  Bands
                           n2                         n25                           FDD
                          n25                          n2                           FDD
                          n38                         n41                           TDD
                          n41                         n38                           TDD
                          n77                         n78                           TDD
                          n78                         n77                           TDD
                          n80                         n86                           SUL
                          n86                         n80                           SUL
                          n257                        n258                          TDD
                          n257                        n261                          TDD




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15                 18                        ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



Annex B (informative):
Change history

                                                   Change history
Date       Meeting   TDoc         CR     Rev Cat   Subject/Comment                                                  New
                                                                                                                    version
 2017-09 RAN4#85 R4-1712166                        Skeleton TS                                                        0.0.1
 2018-03 RAN4#86 R4-1802107                        TS 38.307 v0.1.0                                                   0.1.0
 2018-06 RAN#80 RP-180988                          v1.0.0 submitted for plenary approval                              1.0.0
 2018-06 RAN#80                                    Approved by plenary – Rel-15 spec under change control            15.0.0
 2018-09 RAN#81 RP-181896 0001                F    CR for FR2 Power Classes in TS38.307                              15.1.0
 2018-12 RAN#82 RP-182362 0002            2   B    CR for TS 38.307                                                  15.2.0
 2019-06 RAN#84 RP-191237 0005                B    Addition of missing features for TS 38.307                        15.3.0
 2019-12 RAN#86 RP-193019 0010                B    CR for REL-15 TS 38.307 for PC2 EN-DC TDD+TDD                     15.4.0
 2019-12 RAN#86 RP-193036 0013                F    Adding SDL to 38.307                                              15.4.0
 2020-03 RAN#87 RP-200404 0017            1   B    38.307 CR power class REL-15                                      15.5.0
 2020-06 RAN#88 RP-200986 0021                F    Maintenance CR to 38307 on a reference spec number R15            15.6.0
 2020-12 RAN#90 RP-202485 0039                F    CR to TS 38.307 Release independence support of new channel       15.7.0
                                                   bandwidth from Rel-15
 2020-12   RAN#90     RP-202485   0031    1   F    CR on adding NR ovelapping bands list in TS38.307 in Rel-15       15.7.0
 2020-12   RAN#90     RP-202422   0033    1   B    CR on release independent for Rel.16 NR HST RRM requirements 15.7.0
 2020-12   RAN#90     RP-202422   0034    1   B    CR on release independent for Rel.16 NR HST UE demodulation       15.7.0
                                                   requirements
 2021-03   RAN#91     RP-210065   0043    1   B    Draft CR for TS 38.307 on UE demodulation performance             15.8.0
                                                   requirements (Rel-15)
 2021-03   RAN#91     RP-210078   0046        F    CR on release independent for Rel-16 NR HST UE demodulation       15.8.0
                                                   requirements
 2021-09   RAN#93     RP-211921   0069        F    CR to TS 38.307 on the definition of the duplex-mode for the band 15.9.0
                                                   configurations
 2022-03   RAN#95     RP-220337   0091        F    Big CR for TS 38.307 Maintenance (Rel-15)                         15.10.0
 2022-03   RAN#95     RP-220352   0094        F    CR for release independent for 4Rx support for NR band            15.10.0
 2023-03   RAN#99     RP-230501   0113        F    CR 38.307 Addition of FR2 overlapping bands into Annex-A R15      15.11.0




                                                        ETSI
3GPP TS 38.307 version 15.11.0 Release 15            19          ETSI TS 138 307 V15.11.0 (2023-05)



History
                                              Document history
 V15.0.0       July 2018        Publication

 V15.1.0       October 2018     Publication

 V15.2.0       April 2019       Publication

 V15.3.0       July 2019        Publication

 V15.4.0       January 2020     Publication

 V15.5.0       April 2020       Publication

 V15.6.0       July 2020        Publication

 V15.7.0       January 2021     Publication

 V15.8.0       April 2021       Publication

 V15.9.0       October 2021     Publication

 V15.10.0      May 2022         Publication

 V15.11.0      May 2023         Publication




                                                    ETSI
